If the models don't improve, we're
absolutely screwed. And in fact, the US
economy will go into a recession.
>> It's about the highest stakes like
capitalism game of all time.
>> Godsend in terms of like how much
efficiency and value can be created and
it doesn't ever have to get to like
digital god level. Now, I do believe
>> we're going to get to digital god level
>> eventually. Eventually, if I could have
an intelligence as smart as a Google
senior engineer, that's $2 trillion of
software value.
>> Is that the main like bottleneck to be
attacked?
>> We're popping the bubble right now cuz
the limit of AI is infinite.
[Music]
I was going to lay out this idea of
going through the past, present, and
future of compute as like the big big
idea for our conversation, but since it
just happened, I don't think you've
heard you talk about it anywhere. I'd
love to start by asking about this whole
OpenAI Nvidia thing, which uh sounds
exciting, seems vague, not really sure
what's going on. and maybe you could
explain it to us as you see it and what
the strategic implications are of the
big announcement.
>> All right. So, I think it's I think it's
very very simple, right? You've got
OpenAI paying Oracle lots of money.
You've got Oracle paying Nvidia lots of
money. You've got Nvidia paying open
lots of money meme.
>> We've got we've got the infinite money
glitch here. Uh no, no, no. I that's not
actually what's happening, right? What's
really happening is open air has an
insatiable demand for compute. um the
compute precedes the buildup of
business. You have to have the cluster
before you can rent it out for
inference, right? Or rather run models
on it for inference. You have to have
the cluster to train the model that's
good enough that it unlocks new use
cases which then can be adopted and
there's an adoption curve there for any
new use case. So you have to have all
these things like sequenced given this
is a game of the richest people in the
world or rather the biggest tech giants
in the world, right? It's Zuck. It's
Google, you know, Larry and Sergey or
Sergey is like constantly in the
business now again, right? It's all the
biggest people in the world. It's Elon,
right? There's there's
very much a risk of OpenAI being too
small to matter, right? You know, which
is crazy to say because they've got 800
million users, but like where's the
revenue? Where's the compute? They could
easily get swamped in terms of having of
of how much compute they have. Yeah. if
they don't move fast enough and if they
don't have the most compute or like
among the most compute they will get
beaten. The magic of OpenAI was that
they just spent way more compute on a
single model run on GP3 and four and
they had the foresight and the vision
and the execution. Yeah. But they made
that bet and they were able to secure
it. And at the time it was like meh,
right? It was a few hundred million,
whatever, right? you know, that's a ton
of money. But like now it's sort of
like, well, Mark Zuckerberg sees how
much compute he's going to have to get
even though he has this insane cash flow
>> that he's like, "Oh, wait. I need to go
sign a deal with Apollo for, you know,
$30 billion on this data center, right,
in Louisiana, this mega data center I'm
going to build." It's like, "Wait, why
didn't you just fund this with cash
flows?
>> You have so much cash flow." It's like,
"Because my plans, that's just the
physical data center. Now, what am I
going to put in it?" Is like so much
money. The amount of capital that people
are going to have and are dumping into
this is is insane, right? Google was
slow to wake up and then you know they
were slow to pivot their data center
operations. They were slow to do
everything and so there while they could
have way more compute than anyone by a
humongous degree they haven't been able
to deploy as fast. So so open is like
still been on the curve of and then they
have like you know how much they
allocate to search and you know
generative search is not really
necessarily competing with open AI right
it's it's the mega models. So if you
have this like tremendous vision of
what's going to happen with AI, you know
that it takes a ton of compute to build
them, you know pretty much the amount of
compute you could dedicate to these
models is limitless and they will get
better. Now it's a log log scale, right?
I.e. you need 10x more compute to get to
the next tier of performance. You might
think of it as diminishing returns, but
what if the next tier of performance is
like, you know, you know, a six-year-old
versus a 16-year-old. Like child labor
is like quite like effective versus a
six-year-old you can't get to do much,
right? you know, and this is not exactly
the way to think of AI, but this is the
conundrum that OpenAI is in, right? Um,
they have to get more compute than
anyone or at least among there. They
have to race with the giants. These
giants are trillion dollar businesses.
>> So, how does OpenAI get there? Well,
it's it's partnering with Microsoft.
Well, that soured some, right? Um, it's
partnering with Oracle. Well, Oracle can
can do a lot, but Oracle doesn't even
have a balance sheet like like Google
and Microsoft and and Amazon and, you
know, etc., right? Micro. So, so it's
it's meta Elon
>> sport of kings. Yeah,
>> this is like this is very much like, you
know, the the Pascalian wager nature of
all of this with the the tech giants.
Oracle can be part of it, but it's
OpenAI needs allies, right? They need
they need people to effectively spend
the the capex ahead of the curve and
trust that they'll be able to pay the
rental income because that's what it is
at the end of the day. OpenAI is
committing to fiveyear deals. These
five-year deals cost X amount of money.
It's 10 to 15 billion dollars per
gigawatt of data center capacity that
you pay a year. And then that 10 to 15
billion dollars of gig for a gigawatt of
data center capacity. You're paying that
for five years. Okay, that's 50 to 75
billion of of cash that goes out the
door to OpenAI for one gigawatt of
capacity. And you talk about what Sam's
saying is like, hey, I need I need 10
gigawatts. I need more than 10
gigawatts, right?
>> Then you end up with this like really
challenging aspect of like how do you
pay for that? And hey, that's only the
rental price. If I were to actually do
the capex, it's or if I were to like,
you know, because it's frontloaded,
right? It it becomes who is the balance
sheet for this.
>> That's the reason these deals are coming
about. And so Oracle is making a massive
bet, right, Larry? You know, hey, he's
getting good margin off of it, but he's
making a massive bet that this capex
that he's going to pay for OpenAI will
actually be paid cuz you know, he signed
a $300 billion deal with OpenAI. It's
like,
>> where's that going to come from?
>> Yeah. is like you you your revenue is
like 15 billion ARR this month maybe
right on a run rate basis it'll get to
20 by the end of the year uh pretty
pretty clearly maybe it's like 16 now
but how do you pay $300 billion of
revenue u now
>> if if the bet works out they've just
made 100 billion of profit right like
just pure cash profit it's crazy
>> but if they if it doesn't work out
they've got this huge and they they're
starting to raise debt right they there
was a small deal they signed recently um
but they're going to start raising more
and more debt so this this game now now
Nvidia's kind of got the same conundrum
right it's like well Google and Amazon
are doing these these deals whether it's
uh to two other vendors for TPUs or for
tranium whether it's anthropic or others
they're trying to court openai uh
they're trying to court other companies
how do I get into this game right okay
fine I can rely on Microsoft somewhat I
can rely on Oracle somewhat but at the
end of the day GPUs if I want GPUs to be
king part of it is just like my chip is
the best but part of it is also who's
going to pay the capex upfront Google
and Amazon will pay the capex up front
if it's for TPUs or right they won't pay
the capex up front necessarily for that
same capacity of GPUs so you've got this
like
>> challenging aspect and so that's where
this this Nvidia and open I deal comes
from
>> I want to dig into the underlying
assumptions driving this on the training
and inference side because obviously
there's the willingness like Zuckerberg
just needs to go down the hall to a CFO
to get access to all this capital he
doesn't even need to go down the hall he
can just he can just make it so
>> he's got the voting share
>> Sam's got to fly to Norway way and you
know Saudi and and and other places and
we're we're at that tier of capital.
>> I think you're making it sound way
easier than it is.
>> I I don't mean to at all. I'm I'm just
saying you know Zuckerberg is
>> hold on. If it's this easy let's let's
raise 100 bill dude.
>> We should do it. We can compete. But I
want to make sure I understand your
thinking on the underlying two sides of
this one which is like your view on the
diminishing return curve on just like
the the return on this.
>> I I don't think it's a diminishing
return right. I think that's important
to recognize. Right.
>> Start there. I want to ask about
inference too but and and like the
growth in token you know inference token
demand but
>> given it's a log log chart right uh
scaling laws are right given there's no
model architecture improvements you just
throw more compute data model size at it
it gets better at this pace
>> but you're confident that that will
continue I
>> I think everything has shown that it
will continue and it's continued overd
wasn't some like
>> well GP5 is not not necessarily that
much bigger than 4 right and 4 is
smaller than four um what what what
what's what's changing is sort of
paradigm of how you spend the compute
and also like if they made a bigger
model, could they even serve it? No.
Right? They did 4.5 and it was terrible.
No one could no one could serve it,
right? It was actually like quite a bit
smarter. Uh but they couldn't actually
serve it at any reasonable cost and
speed. Um this is why Anthropic has the
same issue, right? Or I wouldn't even
call it an issue, but like all of their
revenue comes from for Sonnet doesn't
come from 4.1 Opus, right? Which is the
better model. It's bigger, but it's slow
because the hardware is not caught up.
Yeah. In terms of inference speed for
that and so no one wants to use a slow
model, right? The user experience sucks.
>> Yeah.
>> But as far as like if the model gets
better at each scale of hardware spend,
I would say all the tech giants believe
it. I believe it. I think a lot of
people in the financial community are
like this is freaking scary. Yeah. You
know, because the moment it stops, you
know, you wherever you were on the rung,
right? If we went from $50 billion spend
to $500 billion spend, well, that $500
billion spend is never going to have
ROI, right? It was one thing if 50
billion didn't have ROI, but now this
500 doesn't have ROI. It's a big
problem. So anyways, one could think of
it as as diminishing returns because if
you when you go from $50 billion of
spend to $500 billion of spend, you only
move up the let's call that one tier of
model capabilities in absence of, you
know, major algorithmic improvements,
right? Um, and so I'm I'm holding those
sort of off to the side for now. But
that that iterative like performance
improvement in the model is is like I
like I mentioned earlier, right? It's
like a six-year-old versus a
>> 13-year-old maybe, right? The the amount
of work you can get a 13-year-old to do
is
>> I mean, if if you do it, right, we we we
we frown upon that now in this
civilization. Um, but the amount of work
you can get a 13-year-old to do is
actually quite valuable relative to a
six-year-old. And and the same applies
to like a college intern versus someone
who graduated and has even one year of
work experience because there's a
learning curve for kids coming out of
college all the time. So there's that
learning curve and I think you know
while it may be incrementally the same
you know an order magnitude more of
compute the amount of value like if we
just had if we just if you made a
company full of high schoolers and you
had to refresh them every six months so
they didn't learn too much right and
become really good it would be really
hard to create a valuable company the
most you could do is like dig trenches
and and like do yard work but then all
the time these kids wouldn't even show
up right like as as a as as a function
of like how valuable of a business could
you do if you had unlimited high
schoolers
>> versus if you got a business that
refreshed so they didn't build knowledge
versus college students versus you know
25 to 30 year olds right the the the
value of that business that you can
build even though incrementally it's
just 5 years between each of them
>> yeah it's drastic
>> it's it's a drastic value change
>> where do you think we are today like
which level are we at do you think
>> depends on the domain right like for
software developers like I think we're
we're we're we're really pretty good
right um you know and that's where where
we're seeing the most value creation
happen right where you see anthropic
have gone from like what a billion or
less of revenue to seven to eight by you
know already in it's the fastest revenue
ramp we've ever seen for anything of
this
>> and it's basically all code related
>> right I mean like you know some of it's
their own cloud code product some of
it's you know cursor some of it's GitHub
copilot which also offers anthropic
models and has since the beginning of
the year um it's you know it's windurf
it's it's it's all these different
avenues to access the same thing and
these companies aren't all doing the
same thing there there's tweaks and
nuances to how they're doing things
differently But it's all code and you
know in that sense it's like if I had
30-year-old senior engineer um at Google
and if that was like if I had infinite
of those all it costed was capex for
chips and the operational cost is
actually quite low
>> then you could build businesses worth
insane amounts. You could have a
replacement for the $2 trillion of wages
that go to all the software developers
in the world today. or rather you could
augment them and build, you know, twice
as much or five times as much or 10
times as much if you could augment them
because these things don't like just run
on their own, right? It's more of like a
force multiplier to the existing person.
So the value creation potential is is
there. It's obvious if you've coded at
all in your life. I mean, it even works
for VBA. It's not that great for VBA. So
I know a lot of people in this audience
probably know VBA,
but like it's it's not even that
terribly bad for making macros, but you
know, anyways, like the value creation
potential there is is incredibly high.
So let's capture it. How do you how do
you capture? And so sort of this draws
back to the OpenAI Nvidia deal because I
think most people in the market don't
quite get it right. They're like, "Oh,
this is just like round tripping." It is
to some extent, right? If OpenAI builds
a gigawatt of capac they they they
agreed 10 gawatts of capacity, Nvidia
will do hundred billion dollars of
equity investment into OpenAI in the
form of cash, right? And and and Nvidia
gets returned capital. The first chunk
of the deal in the press release is one
gawatt, $10 billion, right? So pretty
straight line but 10 g one a g one
gigawatt to build as we established
earlier is like $50 billion. So Nvidia
is paying 10 billion open still has to
come up with other 40 somehow. Yeah.
Right now what they can do is go go to
the markets get a loan or get someone
else to put a loan. Right. There's these
infrastructure funds that are trying to
get into this. Um there's all these
different you know all these commercial
real estate people are trying to get in
this. there's some way where they'll be
able to figure out other people to front
the capital right and then and then come
up with like a deal much like like it is
Oracle but open has to do more of the
work in terms of setting up the cluster
the software the networking etc. The
nice thing for Nvidia is they sell you
of that 50 billion they capture maybe 35
billion of that is capex that goes
directly to Nvidia. So year zero openai
its partner spends $50 billion on the
data center. The timing is not exactly
that. They spend $50 billion on the data
center. 35 goes it to Nvidia. Nvidia's
gross margin is 75%. You know again I'm
going to make it simple numbers. Let's
say it's 10 and 40 because 10 billion
COGS 40 billion revenue $30 billion of
gross profit. um if we fix the numbers
it's effectively like half their gross
profit from that deal is going directly
to uh to open in the form of an equity
investment the 25% that's COGS is
staying uh on in you know Nvidia is
paying for that and then they keep the
other half of the gross profit on their
balance sheet or do buybacks whatever
they want to do with it so so Nvidia is
not necessarily like they are like
roundtpping some of this um but open
what effectively is happening is openi
gets the opportunity to pay for a big
chunk of it in equity y and nvidia's
lowering their prices without lowering
their prices effectively but and they're
getting owners ersship of a company who
very likely could just like and and but
Nvidia comes out great because they're
they're they're getting the capex
dollars up front. Yeah.
>> Right. So all they're really doing is
they're saying half of my money that's
in this sure it does make its way to me
somehow but in reality I still made half
of that gross profit and the other half
is is is equity in a company that may or
may not be worth something. A company
that may or may not be able to pay
hundreds of billions of dollars of
compute deals that they've signed,
right? In which case they'd be bankrupt,
right? So this is this is like the the
mechanics of that deal. It's about the
highest stakes like capitalism game of
all time. Um, and it's so interesting to
think about when it might run out. You
mentioned like if we hit that final
point and we don't see the return like
we're we're kind of toast in a big hole.
But I'm also curious about the other
side of ability to serve and just demand
for like today's models by inference.
You know, the stat I last saw is token
demands doubling every two months or
something crazy. Obviously, there's all
these reasoning tokens that are really
exciting for some of the the longer
thinking models. How do you think about
the growth of the pool of demand for
inference tokens themselves up just even
in today's models like even if we just
like stop things and fix things and
we'll leave that other side of the
equation just for a second. What's your
model for thinking about that today?
What most interests you in the in the
growth of just broad?
>> So so the thing I like to call it is
tokconomics and I I stumbled upon the
word actually it's like a crypto
>> kill off crypto finally one once and for
all. So I'm I'm trying to make
tokconomics uh SEO direct to you know us
talking about tokconomics and then
hopefully you talking about tokconomics
hopefully like everyone using
>> say tokconomics 20 more times
>> it's the economics of the tokens right
>> how much compute is being spent
>> how much is the gross profit what's the
value being created by these tokens
that's that's the end of the day what's
what's relevant here right Nvidia keeps
saying AI factory which produces
intelligence that intelligence has value
let's say you have a gigawatt of
capacity what can I serve well I could
serve a thousand times times
of a model that's really shitty. I could
serve, you know, amount, right? I could
serve one one times amount that's of a
model that's good. And I could serve
like 0.1 times of a model that's
amazing. Now, multiply that by whatever
factor of like how many users, what's
the number of tokens outputed, but you
know, I could do X number of tokens, X
time 100, X times a million tokens,
right? Depending on the model quality.
And so this is sort of where, you know,
the whole GPD5 thing comes around,
right? is open had had a had a
challenging, you know, thing, right?
They're like, "Hey, we have a couple
gigawatts of capacity effectively,
right? By the end of this year, roughly
a couple gigawatts of capacity too. Um,
more or less a little bit less, but you
know, right now, but you know, it's how
how do they
maximize their serving capacity with
this?" Um one one avenue is we continue
to serve big models and we make bigger
models and the tokens are more expensive
but this log scale is really challenging
because yes the value is an order
magnitude you know value is way more but
the cost is way more and then the the
real whammy is the user experience is
way worse
>> right if I serve a massive massive model
it's slow
>> and users are fickle and you need that
you need the response to be way faster
than they can be hard to
>> calibrate yeah
>> yeah so so there's this user experience
challenge but really in the end it's
like you know for a given model level I
think there's a saturation point of how
many how much demand of intelligence
there is right you can only have such
large child army right of of like people
digging trenches or like con 2012
whatever it is like this is very
cancelable but you know um but you could
have a much larger army of you know or
business of like the larger level of
intelligence right and so when you think
about hey what what could I have done
with GPG3 GP GPD3 even if we paused
there paused the model capabilities
right you know obviously the cost to
serve a model quality of GPD3 has tanked
>> 99% or more
>> yeah it's like 2,000 times cheaper now
>> it's so much cheaper now
>> for and then GPD4 same thing right
people were freaking out about Deepseek
because it's like five six00 times
cheaper GPT OSS came out and that's even
cheaper than that right and it's the
same again like for roughly the same
quality actually I would argue the GPT
OS open source model is actually a
little bit better than GPD4 OG um
because it can do tool calling. And
anyways um the cost of these things
tanks rapidly with algorithmic
improvement, right? Not necessarily
model getting bigger. Um and as these
algorithms get better, you can but but
at X level of intelligence, you can only
serve so much demand. And then the the
the flip side is you know what that
demand it takes time for people to
realize how to use it. So when GPD3
launched, no one cared. When GBD3.5
launched, it was like still most people
didn't care. Chat GPT launched with
GBD3.5 people cared a little bit. uh
GPD4 launched on chat GPD then people
cared a lot but a model tier of GPT 3.5
or three still can be very useful in a
lot of world a lot of the world now it's
not useful for like a lot of use cases
right like for coding it was terrible
right for for copyrightiting it's okay
right like there's there's but there's
some level of use case and it happens to
four but it takes time for that adoption
to happen um and so you've kind of got
this challenge of like if I pause on a
model capability then I end up like
taking way too long for adoption and
also like how can Can I get people to
adopt it if I don't let people use it?
And so, so open had this tremendous
problem with GPD 40, right? 4 and then 4
turbo was smaller than 4 and 4 was
smaller than 4 turbo. What open
basically did was they made the model as
much smaller as possible while keeping
roughly the same quality or slightly
better, right? So 4 to 4 turbo was like
the model was less than half the size
and four turbo to 40 like 40's cost is
way lower than four. Um and they just
kept shrinking the cost. Now five, what
could they have done? They could have
gone, "Oh, we'll go big step." They
actually tried that with 4.5. They they
screwed up some things cuz it was really
hard to get, you know, 100,000 GPUs to
work properly. There's challenges there.
Also, they hadn't figured out the whole
reinforcement learning paradigm at that
time. So, the C, so they ran out of, you
know, it's the the scaling laws are like
it's a chart of quality versus compute,
but that compute breaks down into how
much bigger do I make the model, how
much more data do I put in the model,
and if the internet only has so many
tokens,
>> you're kind of screwed, right? So it
took you know there was there was
potentially a cliff until reinforcement
learning happened you know where you can
generate data and train the model to be
better without the internet having that
data. Um but anyway so so they kind of
had this problem of you have x amount of
compute you can service your users but
hey today um if people want to use my
API I rate limit them because I can't
actually serve them all.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh if I want to use um you know I have
to I have to rate limit the people who
have chat GPT free pro and max whatever
the whatever the $2 $200. There's like
different rate limits. You can only do
deep research so much. Um I have
multiple Chad GPT accounts because I,
you know, use deep research. It's like
you you kick off a bunch, you read it,
and you're like, "Wow, I learned a ton.
Move on." Right? So you have this
challenge of like you can't actually
serve your user base enough. So how are
they ever going to move up this adoption
curve?
>> So then as OpenAI, what's your choice?
Do you make go from 40 to 5? Do you make
the model way bigger and not be able to
serve anyone? And plus, because you
can't serve anyone and it's slow to
serve, the adoption curve doesn't really
get going. Um, or do you make the model
the same size, which is what they did
for GBD5. It's basically the same size
as 40 and and roughly the same cost.
That's actually a little bit cheaper
potentially, and then you just serve way
more users.
>> Um, and get everyone up the adoption
curve more. And then you can instead of
putting them on a bigger model, you put
them on models that do thinking that can
do uh, you know, so if you've used GP5
thinking or GP5 Pro, there's more
intelligence there. Um, and so this is
the whole conundrum they have and this
is where the whole tokconomics thing
comes into play. the question you had, I
wanted to level set it, right, which is
how do you serve these users? The demand
is growing so much.
>> I'm not doubling my hardware every two
months,
>> right?
>> Right. Yes, this capex is crazy, but I'm
not doubling my hardware every two
months,
>> but I'm doubling my tokens every two
months. So, so there has to be enough of
a cost decrease and and there is, right,
with with at a given level of
intelligence.
>> If you could like in if you could snap
your fingers and change change a dial
somehow that would most unlock and
unleash more development, is it just is
it just inference latency? because then
we could do bigger models and serve them
much faster in a way that consumers
would enjoy. Is that the main like
bottleneck to be attacked?
>> Inference is like always it's it's it's
a curve again, right? Like all of these
things are curves and it's a trade-off,
right? Everything in engineering is a
trade-off. So So you have inference
latency versus cost on any given
hardware.
>> Um GPUs can do lower latency to a
certain extent, but then the cost is way
higher or you can do really really high
throughput and the cost is way uh lower,
right? and and you know the company just
kind of yolo they set the dial where
they think it makes the most sense and
there's other types of hardware which
kind of aim for their curve to be at a
different spot. Maybe the GPU curve is
here uh but latency you know over here
you know you're in very diminishing
returns and so actually someone made a
little curve right here. It's like okay
maybe that's a useful point but actually
the market cares about this point. So
anyways there's there's there's a curve
of like who cares about latency. I think
if I could just press a magic button.
>> Yeah that's is it is it capacity? Is it
latency?
>> What is it? I think that I think that's
a that's a tremendous like question. I'd
probably still say capacity/cost is more
important than latency
>> really.
>> I think existing levels of latency are
fast enough for a lot. Um now now if the
if the latency was 10x lower for GBD5
then they could have made a model that
was 10x bigger and served it at this
qual served it at this speed.
>> Yeah, that's what I'm wondering about.
>> But but then you would have the same
capacity issue, right? Um, so I guess
like if I was if you could have your
cake and eat it, which is all the
capacity in the world and the lowest
latency in the world.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, then you would just make the best
you'd make the models way better, right?
Like I think I think it's the physical
realities of like if I'm at OpenAI, what
do I choose to do? Um,
>> do I invest more in the model that
people can use or do I invest more in
the fast? Do I invest a lot in the model
that most people, you know, won't use
because it's expensive first of all
>> and even those that can afford it will
often go back to the regular one,
>> right? Um, I have access to Cloud 4.1
Opus. I still use Sonnet more way more
>> just because it's a better experience,
>> right? It's dumber. It's it's it's
objectively dumber, but it's slow.
>> Yeah.
>> And like I don't I don't know. Like my
time's worth something, right? I think
Openi wouldn't have been afraid to like
make a model way way way bigger in a
terrible user experience.
>> Yeah. And as a result, we're just going
to probably have to wait a little bit
longer to see what the bigger models are
in practice in a way that to to see what
consumers actually do with them because
it's just going to be too hard.
>> It's not necessarily even bigger, right?
Like there's this whole concept of um
overparameterization
i.e. if you just throw more parameters
in a neural network and even when humans
I'll equate it to humans right when you
had a vocab test or you had some test
you memorized before you understood and
it wasn't until you did multiple
repetitions and in different forms that
you actually understood the content
rather than just memorized. Um it takes
it takes cycles. Um and when you when
you do an LLM it's the same thing right?
If you throw some data at it, it will
memorize it before it generalizes. It's
this concept called groing, right? You
grocked a subject, i.e. it's like the
aha moment,
>> trick of understanding. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And the models do the same thing.
They memorize it up until then they
understand it at some point. And if you
make the model bigger and bigger and
bigger without the data changing, you
just memorize everything. And actually,
it starts to get worse again because it
never had the opportunity to generalize
because the model was so big and there's
so many weights and there's so much
capacity for information. You know the
challenge today is not necessarily make
the model bigger. The challenge is how
do I generate and create data that is in
useful domains so that the model gets
better at them. Nowhere on the internet
to show you how to fly through a
spreadsheet you know using only your uh
mouse or not using your mouse using only
your keyboard and all these like you
know functions and all these things
right like that's that's a repetition
that's that's bars but there's no data
on the internet about this. So, how do
you teach a model that? It's not going
to learn it from reading the internet
over and over and over again, which you
and I could never do. And so, it hasn't
a level of intelligence that we can't
do. We can't read the whole internet,
but it can't do basic stuff, which is
like play with a spreadsheet.
>> Um, so, so, so how do you get it to
learn these things? And so, that's
that's where this whole reinforcement
learning paradigm kind of happened,
>> which is
>> giving it environments, specific
environments to learn it and then fold
back in.
>> Right. Exactly. And that's that's where
there's sort of a a challenge in terms
of building those environments in terms
and so there's like 40 startups now in
the bay doing these environments and you
know questionable whether or not they'll
any of them will make it or what will
happen but like there's 40 and then
these companies are also making their
own environments but these environments
can be anything and everything. Give me
an example just like of one of the
startups or something just to get
>> these startups are like like they're
they're just making environments for
open anthropic and others right so it's
like as simple as like here is a fake
Amazon
>> right because Amazon terms of service
ban chat models and all these things but
here's a fake Amazon full of items um
figure out how to click around and
purchase items
>> right uh figure out how to compare the
two items and pick you know I I've
generated a list of deodorants three of
them are fake one of them's real one of
them is not the one I want here's the
prompt figure how to buy it and if and
and you know it tries many things and
you know vary the prompt and all these
things but eventually you know it's
bought the right deodorant and you've
succeeded and you fold it back in.
That's a simple thing. Or it could be,
hey, clean this data, right? Here's this
table. Ton ton of dirty data in there.
Oh, there's like colons and stuff. The
there's an address in one column. You
know, I'm going to, you know, how do how
do I separate out the columns? So, the
address is like, you know, it's it's
street address, city, zip code, and
it'll try a bunch of stuff, but like,
hey, maybe it can't do that yet. So,
really, you just drop it like you teach
you give it, you know, iterative like
here's here's addresses, here's
different formats, and you slowly
iteratively teach it. So, there's all
this like challenge. So that's one
that's another example. Another example
is like you're in a game and like
>> whether it's a tic-tac-toe or Call of
Duty or you know a math puzzle, whatever
the game is. And that's what a lot of
these environments initially have been
is like math puzzles. It's like do this
math puzzle. Oh well I can't do this one
because it's too hard. Here's an easier
one. Oh, okay. I can I can spin on this
one. Okay, I'm better enough. Okay, now
I can learn this one. Right? and and and
it has iteratively stepped through those
to where you know basically from this
you know Q4 of last year to Q2 of this
year these things hill climbed up math
puzzles like crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and a lot of that was not hey I just
know the math. A lot of that was here's
how I use Python to uh write something
that does the math for me. Um and now
these things are actually quite good at
math. But you know so so it's like these
the environments can be super varied. Um
and it doesn't need to be something
that's like clear-cut and dry. It can be
here's a medical case, what's wrong with
it? And then you have another model say,
well, here's here's your instructions on
how you would grade the result of a
case. What looks like they didn't even
try this or didn't even look up this.
Okay, you did that wrong. And you know,
you can you can feed these models into
so these environments can be very very
complicated. So building those out is is
a challenge, right? It was one thing to
say, I'm taking all the internet data.
I'm going to filter it some. I'm going
to throw it to the model, right? There's
tons of engineering challenges there for
sure. There's a different set of
engineering challenges that take time to
build out
>> in those two like in pure raw internet
pre-training world and in this new like
environments world like what inning are
we in in each of those would you say
like how far into the potential benefits
have we have we eaten
>> this is where like the whole like oh
well then you know Dylan what you're
saying is you never need to make models
bigger again right because you've
already run out of data and until you
figure out how to generate tons and tons
of data that's great but actually we
haven't right like you know we've seen
another angle where it's mostly just
been pre-training scaling, right, is is
V3 and Banana Nano, right? These Google
image and video models um and Genie and
like all these Google uh image and video
models and that's that's purely like
scaling on on multimodality, right? The
models still aren't that great at video
and audio and images. They're fine, but
they could be a lot better. Um so
there's like angles of scaling there,
right? Cuz when I said we've run out of
internet, we've run out of the text,
>> tons of video and image and audio,
right? We just it's just so expensive.
So, you know, like we we didn't get to
that.
>> So, like maybe late innings on text, mid
innings on pre-training.
>> I think we're early on text. Yeah, we're
quite early. And then the other angle is
just because you've used the text
doesn't mean you can't learn faster,
right? You take a class, you give them
all a book, you tell them to read it
once, and you test them all. It's like,
well, one kid's going to get 100 and one
kid's going to get a 40, right? It's
just the reality of life. And maybe
maybe if you if you said if you read the
book out loud to them, the kid who got a
100 might get a 30 and the kid who got a
40 might have got a 60, right? So
there's like these different parameters
and and when we talk about model
architecture, the same thing happens
there. So it's not like you stop
training new models. It's not like you
don't have algorithmic improvements or
smarter kids, right? You know, it's not
like pre-training is done. Yeah.
>> In fact, it's it's the base of
everything. So you want to keep having
gains because any gains on pre-training,
right? I.e. the model learns a little
faster or the model's a little bit
smaller for the same quality
>> Yeah. feeds into the next stage which is
this whole post-training side um which
will subsume the majority of the compute
at some point
>> and inning wise is are we in the second
inning of that like how is
>> I think we've like thrown the first ball
>> wow
>> cuz like you know like think about how
we
>> so many environments
>> I think I think my favorite thing my
brother just had a baby this baby will
literally stick his hand in his mouth
and I'm like you I thought about it and
then and then and then it's like wait
he's like he's like calibrating the
senses on his fingers by sticking his
hand in his mouth cuz his tongue is the
most sensitive thing. He doesn't know
he's doing it, but like that's how he's
calibrating. He's like, "Oh, that's me.
Oh, I can touch and feel, right?" It's
like, how does the model learn these
sorts of things, right? It's like you
just have to try stuff and fail. And
we're so so early in like,
>> you know, think about how much we see
throughout our life and how much of that
information we throw away, right? We
throw all of this information away. I
don't remember anything about like, you
know, like, do I remember what I had for
lunch yesterday? No. But if it was
amazing or bad, I would have remembered
that. Oh, I don't like this or I like
this. Right? It's sort of like, you
know, there's all this information we
throw away and these models, these
environments. Yeah, we're generating
tons of data and throwing most of away
and training the model, but it's like
infantessimal compared to what humans
have done. And so, I think there's so
many environments you can put the model
in. There's people who even think you
don't get to the magical AGI until you
embody it, i.e. you put the model in
something that can interact in the real
world, right, as a in a robot. I think
like Elon and XAI like they're they're a
bit more along that angle of like they
think embodiment is required to get to
artificial general intelligence because
you need the model to be able to say
like pick this up or like oh wow this is
like a rotating thingy which you could
never get from like just watching a
video about it. You you wouldn't get the
concepts of it even. Yeah.
>> Um and so I think we're so early in the
reinforcement learning because that's
what humans are. We're reinforcement
learners
>> and and the so what of let's say we fast
forwarded we're in the seventh inning of
that or something like this. What do you
think the way that the average person
will most feel that difference in terms
of the utility of the model?
>> It'll be very different like motus of
using it right. It's one thing to like
ask for information or ask it to
organize information versus it just
doing things. Those those 12-year-olds,
you need to really direct them how to
dig a hole
>> cuz a lot of them haven't dug a hole.
>> But you're talking about order me this
vitamin and just like it's just done,
>> right? And and and we're actually like
not too far away from that. I think if
you try and research electric
toothbrushes, like this is something cuz
you know your electric toothbrush, I
lose it. I leave it at a hotel all the
time. And I've been obsessive about
this. Like in 2021, I I like made a
spreadsheet of all the electric
toothbrushes cuz based on how many IC's
were in each one of them, right? Like
this one has a Bluetooth IC. Why? I
don't know. This one has a display IC.
Like it has a color display IC. Like
what's going on, right? Like so I made a
spreadsheet of all this. And so like I
don't know. It's like this weird like
little thing that I do. I've been
finding like every every you know how I
research which toothbrush I want to buy
now I bought a oral B IO like series 9
or whatever right like whatever it's
like but it's like comparing them like
these models now can like actually like
>> figure out exactly what you want and
more than 10% of Etsy's traffic is
straight from GPT
>> wow
>> Amazon blocks GPT but like otherwise it
would be really high people make
purchasing decisions through GPTs they
just don't make the purchase
>> open's head of applications or co of
applications was at Shopify and created
the shopping agent, right? This is is
very clear. This is how they monetize.
The models are going to purchase for
you, right? They're going to do actions
for you and the model and then the
company that does those actions for you,
the model that will be able to take some
sort of take rate,
>> right? Even if it's like 0.1%, even if
it's 1%, it's 2%. It'll be like a credit
card transaction. Visa is the most
amazing business in the world because of
this, right? And and chat could be that,
too. If I'm making my decisions on
purchasing all sorts of things, I mean,
I already almost outsource like what am
I going to eat to like the front page
recommendation of like Uber Eats
sometimes or I already outsource a lot
of decisions. It's not too much further
till I've like completely outsourced a
decision and a purchasing intent. That's
what's made and Google such amazing
companies is they figured out how to get
the thing you want to purchase in front
of you as best as possible, right? and
and all their work on recommendation
systems is figuring out what you like
how to keep you on the platform longer
whether it's YouTube or Instagram or you
know or bite dance right with Tik Tok or
it's hey here's the ad of the thing
you'll probably click on and buy because
that's how I get paid and and everyone
likes to claim they don't like pay
attention to ads but you do right
>> before asking even more holistically
kind of your view on where we're going
there there's a third category which is
the reasoning part of the equation so
we've got pre-training we've got RL and
environments post- training what about
just like raw time spent reasoning thing
and where that going as its own
independent part of the overall scaling
law. The scaling laws again like if you
zoom out that's not actually what the
like original paper is but in spirit
sure scaling laws are more compute
better intelligence
>> and that could be bigger and bigger
model each iterative token is better
whatever like word garbage I spew out if
I went back and I wrote about everything
I talked about in this I could make it
way more condensed it could be way more
clear um potentially right now the
benefit of podcast is a lot of times
people more fun this way
>> driving it's fun yeah exactly right uh
they're walking their dog and they're
listening whatever it is but like the
interesting like an important like thing
here
is that by putting in these
environments, you're teaching it like
humans, right? If I asked you, you know,
to go figure something out, right? You
might not necessarily know the answer
right away, but I know you could
probably figure it out in a given amount
of time. That's reasoning. You're
spending more brain cycles. The magic
again of like intelligence of humans of
of people is not that they are
information retrieval like the best at
information retrieval, right? Like like
GPTs are amazing at information
retrieval. We're really good at because
we've been trained in these environments
which is our world at figuring out how
to do things iteratively. And so
reasoning and these oral environments
are linked together, right? If if I'm
telling a model, hey, do this math
puzzle, it's not it's not just spewing
out like, oh, the answer's one, oh, the
answer's two. Oh, the answer's three.
Okay, the answer was actually seven. And
when it got there, I trained it again.
It's like, okay, now it knows next time.
Oh, the answer is six, seven, or eight.
Now it's like seven. Okay, great. It's
not like now it instantly knows the
answer. It's actually like, oh, here's
this puzzle. Oh, like these numbers. Oh,
this line, it's sudoku. These numbers
add up to this.
>> Um, oh, it has one through nine, but
it's missing eight. Okay, it's eight.
Right? Like it's thinking through it,
right? Like you and I would solve a
sodoku. Now, eventually when you get
good enough at sodoku, you could
probably just like spit out an answer.
Um you could do it in your sleep but for
a long time you can do it without like
you know and so sort of like this
reasoning time is a way of spending more
compute more brain cycles on the task
without actually you know scaling the
model um and then the model becomes more
versatile right because humans have a
rate if I just held a match against you
and you didn't notice it you'd
immediately jerk right because you're
the the the rate at which you operate is
hundreds of hundreds of hertz right you
your body can actually take actions at
like hundreds of actions per second if
you look at like a fighter pilot's
reaction time, right? The the peak of
human like reaction time. Now, what
reaction can they do is like completely
like primal instinctual, right? Very
little thought is put into it. If you
think about like this alien intelligence
that we're trying to make, is it is it
immediately going to oneshot the answer
always? No. But like, you know, at times
it needs to. Yeah. At times it needs to
be able to, you know, tell me exactly
the answer in like two seconds or half a
second or um, you know, whatever action
it needs to take immediately. But a lot
of times also needs to think through the
problem, go and do stuff. That's why you
hire students. That's why you hire
interns cuz you're like,
>> "Yeah, I know this data exists. Here's
the format I kind of want it on and go
figure it out." And then they they spend
a whole summer doing something you could
have done in like 3 days, but like
great, they learned a [__] ton, right?
And it's like
>> these models need to go through that
progression. Um, and so when I think
about, you know, reasoning RL, it's it's
a lot about how the human psyche and and
intelligence works. Uh, and and sort of
like I wouldn't say, you know, there
there's there's a caution of like trying
to make it too much like humans cuz it's
not the fundamental substrate is not
like humans. The processing is not like
humans. Our brain is very different from
a, you know, how how these ALUs on a
chip works. Like the scaling of these
things is very different. The raw speed,
the amount of words they can, everything
is so different. But at the same time,
it's important to like reckon back to
what actually makes people, you know,
smart.
>> On the topic of like embodiment, uh, and
continuing with the human analogy, how
do you think about things like short and
long-term memory in a human versus just
like raw model capacity or something?
Like what role does that analogy of
memory, I don't mean literally like like
semiconductor memory, but like memory in
a model, how do you think about the
importance that that will play and where
are we in that? The magic of
transformers was uh attention right i.e.
I calculate everything in my context
length. I cont I I I calculate the
attention to each other, right?
Basically, in a vector space like king,
queen, there's these vectors. There's
like dozens of vectors for each number.
And king and queen are actually exactly
the same on a ton of stuff, but then
it's the opposite on one number because
one's a male, one's a female. And then
that that will have a lot of other like,
you know, ramifications throughout other
literary stuff like, you know, what
adjectives do you put with a male of,
you know, this vectors? it's like regal
and you know like powerful and could be
ruthless whereas a queen could be like
dignitary or whatever like I don't I
don't know like whatever stupid stupid
analogy but when you think about how
that applies to you know humans what
what we're terrible at like exact recall
I could tell you a sentence and tell you
to repeat it
>> yeah it's like six numbers the average
person can remember or something like
that
>> right but like you get the gist of the
sent if I told you like if I told you a
whole paragraph you'd get the gist of it
and you could you could repeat the
meaning of it to someone, you could
translate that meaning. So models very
different, right? Fundamentally
transformer attention has been, you
know, calculating the attention to
everything to each other and getting the
models to actually be able to recall.
That's been a training data problem. But
like you can get the model to repeat
exactly what you want, anything in its
context length. It's like a needle in
the haststack is the like problem that
like you know it's a benchmark that
people did for a while because models
had to get good at that. But now models
are just like amazing, right? Like tell
me tell me like blah blah blah and
random part of your context. But what
they really suck at is having infinite
context because you have infinite and
it's sp what the real word is sparse
right you have sparse you you've taken
this entire world and you've encoded it
in such a small amount of data that
lives in your brain and it's so sparse
but you understood how to like grab the
fundamental reason and put it down there
whereas models they haven't been able to
create something sparse yet right what
is the long how do you how do you how do
you reason over the context of infinity.
And you know, humans maybe we have like
a short-term memory and a long-term
memory. I think it's a lot more blurry
than that. There's no like clear line.
Oh, this was in my short-term memory.
Oh, this is in my long-term memory. It's
like it is much more blurry, but as we
as we go back and back and back, it's
more and more sparse, right? If we think
about, hey, what do you remember as a
kid? The most crazy thing in psychology,
I remember when I learned it, I was
like, wait, my memory of what I did as a
kid with my, you know, dad at this like
thing, right? Is fake. It's me
remembering it and inventing the picture
and me remembering that picture like
successively but like the actual memory
of what happened is like morphed a
little bit
>> um over time um because it's a spark
like we the way humans collapse
information um is super super dense and
and but we are able to extract all the
relevant information out now models they
have there's a there's a ton of research
going on in this domain of long context
right how do I get longer and longer
context without blowing up my model
cost. This is a big challenge with
reasoning. This is why, you know, we had
this HBM bullish uh pitch for a while,
right? Is like, you know, you need a lot
of memory when you extend the context,
right? Simple thesis, right? But the
fundamental algorithm needs to change
and improve over time iteratively to get
to something like this short and long
context of memory. That doesn't
necessarily mean the model has to work
like we do, right? Why can't the model
just reason and have a database that it
writes stuff in or like a word document
that it writes stuff in and then it like
takes it out of its context, works
somewhere and like Roful calls back.
It's like, oh yeah, right? Like we don't
do that, right? Like you and I refer to
our notes, we refer to our calendar, we
refer to our text, we refer to anything
all the shopping list, right? Like
great, I know I need food for dinner,
>> I go to the store, I'm like I need a
shopping list, right? Like cuz otherwise
I'm going to buy like stupid [__]
right? is like it's like so so the model
doesn't necessarily have to
fundamentally work the same way as
humans. But there is that challenge of
like how do I how do I train the model
to operate over the context length of a
human? How do I train it to interact
with these databases and these word
documents that it writes to? Because
it's never going to learn that from
pre-training has to learn that from an
environment. But these environments have
to be like architected in a way where
the model knows it can write stuff down
and refer back. And so one of the first
things Openi did was deep research,
right? deep research is everything is
not in deep research's context, right?
Deep research is working for like 45
minutes. It's outputting millions and
millions of tokens and it's creating
this amazing like you know thing that it
wrote, right? And it's like pretty good
research. Um I would say a lot of like
memos that you read from people are like
on the on par with like deep research at
least like a junior. How did they do
that? was they they they enabled it to
be able to write something down
elsewhere and have this recall and and
you know and and and effectively use
language to compress information that it
looked at, put that off to the side, use
language to compress other information
off to the side, use language to
compress other information off to the
side and then looking at all this
compressed information and writing
something, right? And that's that's sort
of what deep research is. So how do
models get there? I'm not sure, right?
Like I think it's a fundamental research
challenge. It's why these companies
need, you know, millions of GPUs to
train on. Yeah. Not for, oh, I'm gonna
make a million GPU model, but because I
need to try a bajillion different things
because I don't know what will work and
what's going to be what's going to work
for humans is so different from what
works with models. There's like any
number of parameters or things you could
tweak that could end up like changing
how it develops, right? Um, and how good
is it at, you know, if I do it this way
versus that way, right? That's that's
the whole point of ML research is is
you're constantly trying stuff out and
and trying to get better and better. If
I add all of this up and you know hold
the mirror up, it's it seems like I
would put you in the category of like
unbelievably bullish on what these
things are going to be able to do in 10
years time or something like pick your
time frame.
>> Yeah.
>> Am I calibrated the right way? Like
amongst everyone you talk to who you
respect and think is
>> I'm much more emarrassed than a lot of
people actually which is the crazy
thing. help help me understand that
distinction. Like if you're where are
you 1 through 10 amongst the people that
you respect 10 being the most bullish
and then like what is the difference
between if you're not a 10. What's the
difference between you and the person
who's a 10?
>> I respect you, but I know I'm like way
more bullish than you and I respect like
Mark Zuckerberg, but I know he might be
he's probably maybe I don't know if he's
more bullish than me, but I know Sam
Alman's definitely way more bullish than
me, right? He says he says we have
artificial general intelligence in in
less than a thousand days, right? say,
you know, like or Dario, like I respect
him immensely, but he's way more bullish
than me. Right. My roommates are like
one of them is an anthropic ML
researcher and one of them is is another
podcaster, Dwarvesh, like they're
they're both like way more bullish than
I am.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But like even they are
not as bullish as like some researchers
in this field. So it's like but then if
I go talk to like uh you know someone
someone I respect like I don't know like
a famous investor right like uh you know
any of these famous investors I don't
want to name one because I'm scared you
know like but there's all these famous
investors right it's like well no
they're not they're not more bullish
than me and the stuff I'm saying sounds
like crazy [__]
>> some of it though is timeline um I'm I'm
actually even more curious about like
the upper limit the extent to which
there is
>> the upper limit I think I'm among the
most bullish you can get because
>> that's what I mean
>> the upper limit of this is that this
will just be smarter than humans. I
don't think that will happen like
anytime soon. Even if that doesn't
happen anytime soon, there's so much
valuable stuff that can be done with
these models that economically we will
skyrocket. There's so much value that
can be created in the world just by hey,
if the models know how to do uh cobalt
to like C and Python migration of like
main frames,
>> just migrate everything
>> migrate everything from mainframes to
cloud the world is how much more
efficient? Hey, making making all these
random applications and like automated
reports and like stop using Excel as a
database, but instead like you can make
a real database and and manipulate stuff
in Excel, but like you know there's all
sorts of like humongous business
efficiencies that could happen or
automation that could happen without the
model ever being, you know, we could
literally just pause it at like a 6
months from now time frame of like how
good it is at software development and
it would be like godsend in terms of
like how much efficiency and value can
be created
>> for the economy and it doesn't ever have
to get to like digital god
Now, now I do believe
>> we're going to get the digital god
>> eventually. Eventually, is that 10
years? Is that 5 years? Is that 100
years? Is that a thousand years? I don't
know. Cuz there's there's so many
unknown unknowns. Like I mentioned,
right? Like these these babies are
putting their freaking hand in their
mouth to calibrate. And then later they
put their foot in their mouth
>> and they're like, "Oh, that's my foot.
Oh, here's the senses on it." And then
they can pick up stuff in their hand and
they no longer have to put it on their
most sensitive part of their body
because they know what it is. Or they're
like, "Oh, this is a speck on the
ground. What is it? It's not food. But
now I know what it feels like inside my
hands and I've calibrated, right? It's
like the models have not gotten there
yet, right? Like it has no idea how to
do this. Digital god is like well one I
like kind of believe in embodiment and
like you need non-digital god. You need
a physical and you need the capability
of like having touch and feel and all
that to truly be uh have have an
experience like humans and be smarter
than us in every way.
>> But you know that's so far away.
>> What do you think about what physical
intelligence is doing? attacking the
whatever you want to call it large
movement model or large robot model or
something.
>> What are they actually doing today is
like holy [__] it's so simple in terms
of like to a human.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like to to models it's like picking
this up is freaking hard. Like how much
do I squeeze my pinky versus this finger
versus this finger versus finger? I
don't know. Like but you pick up a glass
of water and you tilt it and it's like
this is impossible for a model today and
it's likely like at the level of
dexterity like you know if I if I if it
was a wine glass and I was swishing it.
Think about how simple that is. You
don't even think about it, but like you
instinctually pick up a wine glass and
you swish it and it lets the aroma out
and you smell it, but it's like, oh,
that little swish is so much tactile
feedback and movement and it's like
these models can't do that [__] yet.
Like nowhere close. So, I mean, I think
yes, we have, you know, but it doesn't
need to be that good. It doesn't need to
be able to swish a wine glass and not
break the wine glass and put it back
down and tilt it perfectly and not spill
it. Doesn't need to be able to do any of
that to be tremendously valuable. What
it needs to be tremendously valuable is
pick this up and put it down here after
knowing what it is. Um, so there's so
much value that could be created just by
being, you know, really good at like
>> getting data. Yeah.
>> Yes. I like, you know, I think the
robotics world is huge. I think we're,
you know, we're we're like we literally
warming up.
>> We haven't even left the dug dugout,
right? Like we're we're like nowhere
close to, you know, the scaling on on
robotics. There's a ton of like the data
flywheel needs to get going there.
>> One of the most interesting things, the
subplots of this whole world is the
talent wars. And a cool idea is that as
these things get better, maybe we begin
to automate some of the research
function that people formally would have
played. Do you see a world where like
we're squeezing down the fewer and fewer
number of people that really matter that
will have all the impact on where we go
uh in terms of like net new research and
that means that all this crazy spending
that's happening at Meta or elsewhere
makes a lot of sense that like maybe
even those numbers should be higher or
something like this.
>> I think it's like tremendously hilarious
that people are like, "Oh my god, this
person's getting paid a billion
dollars." It is infeasible. It's like
how could this person possibly be worth
that much? Well, they're running the
experiments on chips that cost, you
know, hundred billion
if every wasted experiment they do, if
they just used like a third of the
compute and and their ideas and their
impact on it wasted the compute. It was
an idea that was already done or like
you know like there's so much wasted
compute. I'll say I call it wasted. It's
trying stuff and failing. But like none
of us know what to try and what not to
try and and these things are so
complicated. There's like a group of
people just trying different stuff on
the existing data. How do you mix it?
What order do you feed it into the
model? Um how do you filter it? Like
what's the architecture? There's
different people working on long
context. There's different people
working on every single aspect of the
model that like if you just make them a
little bit more efficient that they come
up with the idea that's 5% more
efficient. Well, fantastic. I just saved
not only 5% of my compute time, training
time, I also save 5% across my entire
inference fleet. And then I do it again
and again and again and again because
we're so far away from like these models
being anywhere near as efficient as a
human brain and we know it can at least
get as efficient as us. Maybe the
compute substrate isn't the same, but
like whatever, right? Adding more people
to the problem doesn't make it faster,
right? Because there's so many things
you're trying. You run these
experiments, you learn something, and
then you implement it. You tweak the
knobs in these ways in 100 different
ways and then you see the trend line and
you're like, "Oh, so actually I should
tweak it this way. Let's implement
that." Right? There's so much like gut
feel. there's so much like reading data,
understanding it, imple reimplementing
it into these things that if you add
people, you're going to slow it down. In
a sense, a lot of like Meta's problems
before they did the super intelligence
thing was that they just had too many
people that weren't led by leadership
that was amazing. Um, and they had like
a lot of failed experiments and wasted
time doing things that didn't matter.
Um, there's a there's a tweet from one
of my friends uh at OpenAI. Um, he's
pretty famous on Twitter. His name is
Run. He's like, I get visibly viscerally
angry every time I think about how many
H100s Meta is wasting.
>> It's such a funny tweet because it's
like, well, yeah, they're wasting a ton
of compute. They were, you know, maybe
they still are, but you know, like, and
everyone's wasting compute, right?
Opening eyes wasting tons of compute
cuz, you know, what's the paralo optimal
model architecture? Who knows? Another
thing I saw Run say recently which was
so interesting was uh why don't we just
go make even more ridiculous offers
around the people that have process
knowledge for things that we want here
in the US in other countries like why
don't we if if we're getting pretty good
at the Arizona you know fab that we've
built and we we think that we can sort
of extract the process knowledge from
the people why don't we like go aqua
hire like all the best people in Shenzen
or all the best people in like other
places in the world do you think it
starts to escalate to that level like so
much is dependent on the process
knowledge of a relatively small group of
people and the and the war the talent
war should actually be it shouldn't be
meta and open AI it should be like the
US maybe through meta and open AI and
like people from all over the world like
do you think it starts to get that
extreme and should it
>> that's almost a function of why like
Intel is has fallen off a lot right is
like um you have all these geniuses in
you know you know nanochemistry and PhDs
and all these like random like you know
like things whether it be chemistry
physics all these incredibly smart
people, but there's a whole class of
incredibly smart people that never went
that way because they're like, "Oh,
those guys are making like 200k." Like,
why would I do that? I'm gonna go I'm
gonna go to Google and make 800k and now
I'm going to go to OpenAI and make 10
mill or no I'm going to go to Meta and
go make 100 million, right? Like any
like smart 18-year-old is going to be
like, "Fuck that. I'm doing this,
right?" Why do the smartest doctors, and
I don't mean to say the smartest doctors
in a general sense, but their skews
really smart population of doctors that
want to be dermatologists and
anesthesiologists. It's like, is that
the most valuable thing for them to do?
>> No. But those are the two professions
that give you like good working hours
and great pay.
>> Yeah.
>> Not to say that, you know, the general
doctor is not smart as them. But if you
took the population of general, like
family doctors, like just the random
doctor, and you took the population of
dermatologists, the newest coming out of
school, the ones that are being
dermatologist and anesthesiologist are
way smarter or at least were scored
better, were able to get into the field
that was coveted. And so, yeah, talent
wars like it it is truly like, you know,
we've sort of been through this process
of like capital has, you know, it's it's
always been human human capital and and
capital goods sort of those two vying
off of each other. And for a long time
with mechanization, industrialization,
we had the human capital decreasing as
the industrial capital increased. Um and
sort of that got to a point where
especially in the 70s it really started
to tank as the ability to globalize and
and all these things started to really
hit the US and and that's why we have
all a lot of the like population level
dynamics and income inequality that we
have today that like is very bad for the
psyche of the US and and the stab
stability of it. But then you have now
you now have like we're in such a age of
like well actually like manufacturing
things is pretty commodity like most of
the value doesn't come from the
manufacturing of it. comes from the
creation of the idea. One thing Jensen
told me which I thought was like
amazing, right? He's like, you know,
Dylan, he's like, the reason America is
rich, like people have it all wrong. The
reason we're rich is because we've
exported all the labor, but we've kept
all the value. And that's what Nvidia
does, right? They've exported the labor
of making their chips and Apple, right,
everyone. It's it's done in Asia.
>> Um, and those those companies make
money,
>> not as much money as Nvidia and Apple,
>> right? All the gross profits are going
to them. Um, and then they're either
reinvesting it or buying back stock or
whatever. However they allocate the
capital is like you know different
concern. If like as you said the process
knowledge is so valuable why aren't we
why aren't we doing this? That's that's
a that's a that's a great idea.
>> Run's idea not mine.
>> Yeah. No I mean I think I think the
challenge is
how to choose people is really
difficult. So for some roles someone who
can talk the talk they're great right?
Like people just automatically assume
they're great because they can talk the
talk. But you know how many people suck
at talking and are really freaking good
>> at doing. Yeah.
>> Yeah. But then you don't know. You don't
know, right? Because it's like, well,
but then there's people who talk about
being able to do better than the person
who's doing and like and then like you
know these tests are never as good,
right? Like so work trials. It's like
how do you select?
>> Um and this was a big challenge for
Meta. Um so some of the criticisms are
like they didn't get all of the best
people. They actually got a lot of like
bad people. It's like the cope from like
OpenAI and Enthropic and you know these
kinds of companies are like no no no
they didn't get our best people. That's
what Sam said, right? He's like they
didn't get our best people. It's okay.
Meanwhile, he did have to do counter
offers internally, right? So it's like
you know um so so as far as the process
knowledge I think I think the ML
researchers are an extreme of how much
value one can do. But my favorite
analogy that I came up with recently is
that ML research is the exact same as
semiconductor manufacturing. You know,
there's a ton of jobs in in in
semiconductor manufacturing that don't
exist in ML research, but it is a ton of
tune a thousand different knobs, right?
>> Oh, you put the wafer in this tool.
You're going to change the pressure of
the chamber when you're doing the
deposition. Oh, you're going to change
the mix of the chemicals flowing in.
Which chemicals you're putting in,
right? Like what what speed you do it
at. Do you do it for 30 minutes? Do you
do it for 31 minutes? Do you do it for
you know, obviously it splices way down.
There's so many knobs on every single
tool
>> and you have a thousand
>> input and process knobs,
>> right? Process knobs on each tool plus
it's like the sequence of them all and
and so like you frankly cannot test
everything, right? It's impossible. It's
it's too large of a search space just
like just like designing a chip is too
large of a search space. You have 100
trillion transistors. How you going to
possibly try every single thing?
Impossible, right? You just have to have
enough intuition like pick that point,
pick that point, pick that point, see
the data. Oh, okay. I think the answer
is here, right? And then just yolo,
right? Um and and you know obviously
once you you think the answer is here
you test here and you're like okay here
but like a different person might have
seen these three and then said okay the
answer is actually here not here and
like the data is like fuzzy it's like
somewhere in the center but like you
know it's like this this whole like idea
of like ML research is you spend a lot
of time on compute training doing what
effectively were useless things besides
teaching yourself what's the right thing
to do and what's the wrong thing to do
and and semiconductor manufacturing is
the same way and actually all process
Process manufacturing is the same way.
If you're iterating super fast and
you're trying to get better and better
and better or you're optimizing a
process on a chemistry or whatever it
is, you you try, you fail, you learn,
you do. In semiconductor manufacturing,
maybe it's just running tens of
thousands of wafers. And so your R&D
cost of you know an of an Intel and and
or or your your cost of your you know
main fab that is running the R&D is very
very high and it's producing zero
economic value besides that it's
teaching you how to do the next node
which then you can deploy at volume and
that is like like what actually makes
the money.
>> I want to go back to where all the way
to where we started and and ask about
what I'll call like the like the
wellspring or the fountain of power in
this whole ecosystem. So I want to
understand how you think about who has
the power and how to keep or generate
power as a business. I mean um because
it seemed like talent maybe talent is
like the very beginning of the chain and
he who has the talent like on a long
enough timeline has the power or
something like that but also there's
structural stuff like just the scale the
industrial scale of some of these things
which just takes forever to build or
whatever. How do you think about um even
smaller zoomed in examples like okay
cursor is unbelievably popular the
revenue is insane um so much of it goes
back to anthropic like who is the power
in that relationships how does that
dynamic change over time it just seems
like the power dynamics are so um so
fascinating in this world and I'm
curious where you think it like kind of
comes from in the first place like where
where it exists today and where it will
go in the future
>> when we think about like the power
structures right like you mentioned a
really interesting one does anthropic
hold all the cards in this cursor
relationship. Cursor has like I don't
know like nearly a billion dollars of
revenue now on a on a on if you do
current month times 12. That's a ton.
But like again like their margins are
what they are and they're sending most
of it back to Anthropic. You know some
people say their margins may be
negative. I think they're slightly
positive but regardless they're sending
most of it back to anthropic.
>> The gross profit dollars are at
Enthropic right now.
>> And but then Enthropic is taking
anthropic is taking all the gross profit
dollars and putting them into compute y
>> for training. Yep.
>> So then all those gross profit dollars
are going to like
>> Jensen laughing hilariously.
>> Well, maybe Jensen or maybe like Amazon
who's then sending it to like uh or or
or or Google who's sending it to
Broadcom, right? Like the gross profit
dollars are going to the hardware layer
um from all of this for sure. But like
does anthropic have all the power? Like
you know like the common view is yes
from a lot of people but then it's like
well
>> but anthropic only makes the model
that's generated the code. There's a lot
more in this system, right? cursor gets
all of the data. Um they get all of the
users. They get how do they interact
with this. Enthropic doesn't get that.
They get a prompt. They send a response.
Prompt response. Now, now they have
cloud code which is like taking share.
Um and it's very different than cursor.
But like you know anyways like they get
prompt response and then like cursor is
like oh well I'm training embedding
models on your code database and I have
there's actually multiple models that
I've made. I've made the embedding
model. I've made the autocomplete model.
I've made, you know, oh, I can switch
the enthropic model to open the eye
model whenever I want to. I'm only using
the entropic model because it's the best
one. Oh, and because I have all this
data, maybe I can train a model not for
everything better than you, but for the
segment better than you. And so it's
like the power dynamics are, you know,
>> it's weird. It's it's it's their
frenemies, right? Everyone's a friend,
right? Same as with Open Eye and
Microsoft, the most crazy power dynamic
that's going on in the world. um where
they signed aou that said they had an
understanding of like what the deal
would actually be for them converting to
for-profit. Like what is going on here?
Like this this sounds like the most
non-announcement announcement ever. The
power dynamics of this all it's it's the
most fascinating soap opera ever, right?
Like uh there were one of my friends was
telling me about like K-pop Demon
Hunters. I don't know if you've heard of
this.
>> I haven't done a nine-year-old daughter,
so it's all it's all I hear about.
>> You've seen it a lot. I I had just heard
about it and they're like, "Oh, let's
watch it." I'm like, "What? Whatever."
And but like there's drama. There's like
But like this this real world power
drama is way cooler than this. Like
>> at least for you and I.
>> Which parts of the drama interest you
personally the most? Like what where do
you think the stakes are the highest in
in the various like subplots?
>> The Microsoft opening I1 is absurdly
interesting because at one point right
like 2023 it was like Microsoft's going
to own the world. Yeah.
>> Right. 2024 a lot of it too. And then
like H2 2024 Microsoft backed down a
lot. Right. They pulled back because
because uh Amy Hood and and whoever else
at Microsoft, Mipundar, whoever were
like, "Maybe we don't need to be on the
hook for a $300 billion. We're not going
to build out $300 billion worth of
compute for Open AI." Like that's they
can't pay for it. Yeah. Right. It was
like like was at least had to go through
their head when they cut back. And so
they paused a bunch of data centers,
right? And they said, "Oh, you know, we
don't need to be the exclusive comput
provider. You can go to Oracle. It's
fine." Right? Like and they like
relinquish this power, right? Now Oracle
has that deal. But then like OpenAI
sends like 20% of their revenue to
Microsoft or API revenue or something
like this. And then you know they have
Microsoft has this like 49% capped
profit structure on OpenAI and then
there's like this whole like IP sharing
like this deal like you you it's like
really hard to understand the mechanics
of the OpenAI Microsoft deal even. Um so
you have this like whole power dynamic
and they're trying to renegotiate this
like OpenAI doesn't want and the whole
deal is like oh one we have AGI you no
longer have API rights or IP rights and
it's like [__] does that mean? Right?
Like if you ask someone 20 years ago and
you put them in front of Chad GPT, you
know,
>> AGI
>> like this is [__] AGI. Like it knows
everything and it could have a
conversation. I can't tell it's not a
human. Actually, I can tell it's way
smarter than a human. Yeah.
>> But now it's like ah whatever. I can't
do XYZ. So the thing the bar always
moves no matter what the level of
intelligence is. And for me it's not
going to it's going to be like when the
thing puts its hand in its mouth and
it's like yeah, this is me cuz I'm a
human. Right? Like you know that's sort
of like the sentience the consciousness
of it all. Right? That's one power
dynamic that's like crazy what's going
on there. U another power dynamic is the
one around Nvidia and the hyperscalers,
right? Nvidia is the king. All of the
gross profit is going to them today,
right? Pretty much all of it. Sure, TSMC
makes some, sure, SKH makes some, but
they have to invest a ton in capex.
Sure, Broadcom makes a bunch and you
know, Broadcom makes a ton of gross
profit off of these companies, but like
Nvidia makes by by far the most grow
gross profit in the industry and it's
not even close. And so going back to
like the analogy of like well they're
king and they want to continue to be
king and they want to make sure GPUs
continue to be most used, but also like
they can't buy anything. Like they can't
buy any companies. They weren't even
allowed to buy ARM when they were like a
nobody, right? I don't I don't mean
nobody, but they weren't like they were
like pretty much a nobody on the grand
scheme of things and they weren't
allowed to buy ARM, you know, in like
2020 or whatever or 2021, whatever the
time frame was. They totally could not
buy any major companies. Um, you know,
they'll buy smart startups like you
know, I bought a startup that I was like
a seed investor in and like an adviser
in like all these things like recently,
but like they they can't buy a real
company. So, what do they do with all
this cash flow?
>> And like, sorry, but you're a loser if
you just do buybacks. Like that just
that's admitting that's admitting you
can't get higher returns. Yep. On your
capital.
>> On your capital, which is fine. Like,
you know, Meta, Apple, Google. They were
mature companies for a while. Guess
what? They're gonna those companies
aren't going to do buybacks ever [__]
again, right? Or not like ever again,
but for a while
>> cuz like they have way more they think
there's better ROI for their capital
now.
>> And Nvidia, like you know, if you look
at Jensen, he's like he's like he's
always like flirted with buybacks, but
like mostly he's been like reinvesting
in the business,
>> but you can't reinvest that much into
the business.
>> So like how do you
>> He's doing demand guarantees. He's doing
like all this crazy stuff now.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. He's using his
balance sheet to
>> win.
>> Yeah. Try and win more. Right. Um which
which is an interesting uh dynamic. I
don't know if there's ever been anything
like this in terms of the non non
anti-competitive nature of this, right?
Like where you backs stop clusters so
that you know like Cor recently got a
deal with Nvidia where it was like they
backs stopped a cluster right now core
would have never built this cluster
because it's for like short-term demand
and renting GPUs on short-term is like a
terrible business model, right? You want
to do long-term contracts. you've and
you want to do long-term contracts to
people with balance sheets. That's the
golden like goose, but that doesn't
exist so much. So, you do long-term
contracts of people who don't have a
balance sheet like OpenAI. And if you
can't do that, then you'll do, you know,
short contracts with people who don't
have a you who do have a balance sheet,
right? Like there's this whole matrix of
like who you rent GPUs to. But from
Nvidia's interest, it's like, you know
what I really love is when venture
capitalists fund a company and then 70%
of their round is spent on compute. They
[__] love that, right? And that's
what's happening with all these
companies like these and and like it's
like whether it's physical intelligence
who you know they're spending a lot on
like robot arms and [__] too but they're
also spending a lot of compute or it's
like you know any other startup that's
raising cursor whoever right and even if
it's not directly
>> it's indirectly going to GPUs um they
love they love when people spend their
entire round on a GPUs
>> would be really good is if it wasn't
like a two-year deal or three-year deal
for that compute if it was oh yeah yeah
you can spend 70% of your round on one
training run.
>> You know, leave a company with these
ideas, gather the data, do the training
run, and then you have a product and
like you try and you show how good the
model is, then you try and raise again.
That's what would be really great for
Nvidia, but no one wants to build a
cluster who's predicated on that as the
business model. That's crazy. So, they
have to back stop a cluster to do that.
Or, hey, you know, OpenAI might go to,
you know, their own chip. They might go
to um some ASIC from another company,
right? They they they might even buy
TPUs. There's a there, you know, they
might even like go to Amazon, right?
Like they don't really care. They're not
beholdened to Microsoft anymore,
>> trying to serve a product to a customer.
Yeah.
>> And they want to build the digital god
and they want to serve a product, right?
Make revenue, right? So they don't have
to go to Nvidia. Nvidia is the best
option.
>> But you know, it' be really really
helpful is if I could, you know, going
back to the earlier part in this this in
this discussion is if the first year I
get the compute up front and I don't
have to pay for the compute for the
first year,
>> right? like I was mentioning, you know,
the $10 billion for the So, it's like
it'd be really good if I could do that
because then
>> I can for a full year I can do training.
I can I can subsidize inference. I can
do all these things that build up a user
base and then I can and then I can
actually pay for it. I have a year of a
gigawatt to figure out a business model,
right? Whether that is serving free
tokens and then implementing uh this
purchasing right of of you know
purchasing stuff for the free user or
it's and and so a lot of that is like
almost no fee initially purchasing and
then and then like slowly rising the fee
over time right or it's hey you know I
have to serve this model at worse gross
margins or negative gross margins
initially but then eventually I can
serve it at positive gross margins
because the models keep getting cheaper
or it's I train the next generation
model that's so much better than
everyone else and then I'll win all the
business for that level of intelligence
because I'm the only one with a
18-year-old. You guys all have
14-year-olds, right? Like, you know, who
are working for you. So, it's like, you
know, this is this is a they can do
whatever they want with this allocation.
It's not an allocation of capital, per
se. Allocation of compute. They get to
decide what they'd allocate that compute
to. And Nvidia's helping them by
effectively frontloading it if they can
find a capital, you know, and and and
that company's like, "Oh, yeah, yeah,
Nvidia's backing this, too. Oh, you
know, there's all these other things."
It's much more reasonable for someone to
say, "Oh, yeah. I'll back I I'll pay the
capex because I know the first year is
already going to be paid because you've
got that investment from Nvidia. What
about the next four years?"
>> If you ask a bunch of investors who are
like students of economic cycles through
history, like Carlo Perez type stuff,
they'll say that the concern is that
every shortage is followed by a glut and
we always overbuild on long lead time
big capex projects and you've got multi-
gigawatt, you know, power being
installed. You've got all this crazy
stuff in semiconductors and like at some
point like it just gets overbuilt. All
the stuff we talked about earlier feels
like we're not really close to that.
Like there's so much freaking demand.
>> If the models don't improve, yes, we
will overbuild, right? Like it's pretty
simple. It's like yes, there will be
like supply chain things where switches
from one supplier to another and like
that's a lot of the stuff that we like
nitty-gritty stuff we focus on. At the
end of the day, if the models don't
improve, we're absolutely screwed. In
fact, the US like you know in another
year if if this lasts another year and
then it happens like the US economy will
go into recession like straight up
because of this and probably Taiwan as
well and probably Korea as well, right?
Because there's so much buildup and
revenue flowing through to us for this,
right? But you know when you look at
these other things like the bubbles of
the past, some of them were just silly
nonsense, right? Like tulips, silly
nonsense, right? Crypto complete Ponzi
scheme, right? But then there's other
stuff that's like no, this was real,
right? like the the UK like spent like
some absurd percentage of their GDP on
railroads for like a decade.
>> 6% or something crazy.
>> Yeah, we're nowhere close to GD 6% of
our GDP. Like holy [__] Um but like
that was like okay there's tangible but
it's like oh well we over did overbuild
because like how many goods are there to
transport?
>> But like also you must like reduce you
must build these railroads to reduce the
cost of transport so much because you
have no clue when the demand stops and
you've overbuilt and because there's 10
people trying to do it at once you're
obviously going to overbuild at some
point. Um same thing with fiber. A lot
of the argument against this is like,
well, no, but this time it's the
strongest balance sheets in the world.
It's the world's most profitable
companies. They can all pull the plug at
any point.
>> Yeah.
>> Microsoft pulled the plug at one point
before they're like, oh [__] no, no,
plug it back in. Right. They recently
plugged it back in. They're like, "Oh,
wait. We're starting. We're restarting
this. We're going out into the market.
We're signing deals with uh Nebius for
GPUs." Like, I don't remember how big
the deal was. It's like 10 plus billion.
>> Yeah. It's like 19 billion for Nebius.
It's like, well, if they had just not
pulled the plug on their data centers,
they wouldn't have had to do that. they
wouldn't have to pay those gross profit
dollars to Nebius, right? But, you know,
Nebius made the bet that the demand is
there and they were right. Um, and so,
you know, when you think about this,
it's like,
>> what is the level of demand where this
stops, right? If if scaling laws
continue, right? How I mean, of course,
there's a adoption curve, there's a
pace, there's realities with capital,
there's realities with supply chains,
things take time. But if you like boil
it down to it, it's like your demand for
30-year-old senior engineers at Google
who know how to make and program
anything is effectively like I don't I
want to say infinite, but it's $2
trillion of value.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. If I could have an intelligence
as smart as a Google senior engineer,
that's $2 trillion of software value,
right? Because that's how much I pay the
world pays to software engineers today.
>> Um and you just go down the list of
every other use case, right? If you have
just a simple, you know, phys physical
intelligence robot that can do this,
that can recognize headphone versus
water and pick up or versus phone,
right? And pick up the right thing and
manipulate it properly and put it in the
right spot and sort it, that's worth how
much to the distribution uh supply
chain, right? Like I I don't know, but a
lot, right? So, it's like there's you we
don't need to get digital god for there
to be immense value. But the interesting
thing here is that, you know, it's like
human capital, capital goods. All of
these other revolutions have been human
have been capital goods that reduce the
amount of human capital you need.
>> Whereas this is just creating human
capital,
>> right? In a sense. In a sense, right? If
I like sort of get everyone bowled up,
right? And we're we're on this podcast,
right? You know, there's like this I
don't know if you've like uh heard the
curse, right? It's like if you talk
about the stock on in on this podcast,
it goes down, right? I've heard word of
it.
>> We're popping the bubble right now cuz
the limit of AI is infinite. For the
record, we went and did we went and did
the math one time because I was sick of
hearing about this [__] curse and
it's just market performance. It's not
>> Oh, really?
>> So, so, so I last time I was it wasn't
your it wasn't this podcast, it was your
other podcast. I talked about applied
materials and the stock was up like 70%
the six months after. I was like,
>> there you go. Yeah, I broke the curse.
>> I was like, hell yeah.
>> What do you think about all the
companies in the middle? We've talked a
lot about Nvidia and then like people at
the end serving applications. What about
these companies like together and base
10 and fireworks and you mentioned
Nebius like all these interesting middle
middle layer players are there amazing
businesses to be built there do you
think are they temporary patchwork to
make the system work and serve you know
serve demand like what do you think
about that this middle layer
>> the cloud business model right like uh
let's let's say neocloud business model
so there's you sort of you mentioned
inference providers and neoclouds um the
neocloud business model is absolutely
amazing or terrible depending on how you
do it right it's terrible if you like
sign short-term contracts and you just
hope and pray you have short-term
contracts forever and actually initially
your short-term profits have amazing
cash flows, right? Because you're
selling it at like you you bought a GPU
and you put it in a data center and the
power and all that. The cost per hour
over a six-year period for Blackwell is
$2. Let's just call it for simplicity
sake, it's $2. It's not exactly that,
but if I sold it for 6 months, I could
get like north of I could get like 350
or $4. Like, holy [__] that margin's
insane. But what happens two years from
now, three years from now when I'm still
selling six-month contracts or one-mon
contracts and the next generation of
Nvidia chip is out or and it's 10x
faster for 3x the cost, right? Okay. So
now, you know, naturally the price of
this should tank. The other way to do it
is is hey, I actually like have a
long-term contract of well, I'm selling
to opening I'm selling to micro the
other end of the spectrum is what Nebius
just signed. I'm signing [__] $19
billion to Microsoft. They will stay no
matter what. The market literally
believes Microsoft will pay its
obligations before the US government
because it's like literally a cheaper
bond rate, right? Which is like insane
to me, but whatever. This $19 billion
has like a huge gross profit cuz the
price per hour and and it's not exactly
$3 and it's not $2, but like the margins
here are like
really good. Like Nebius is going to
make like at least $6 billion of gross
profit off of this. Um, and then
obviously they have their operational
cost, but like like $6 billion of gross
profit off of this deal is like insane.
So like I would do that all day and
Cororeweave did until Microsoft stopped
going to Cororeweave, right? Um and but
like Cororee's turned around and they
found other customers and all these
things, right? Selling to Google and
selling to OpenAI. Oh, but now Oh,
OpenAI is definitely not like a real,
you know, you can't rely on their
balance sheet. Okay, I still have
amazing margins when I sell to OpenAI,
but they don't have a balance sheet. So
how can I be sure that they're actually
going to pay the thing that they've
signed up to? Right? So, so you know, I
know in theory this contract is worth a
ton of money and in Cory's books today
are that that contra all the contracts
they've signed are mostly Microsoft,
mostly money in the bank, right? But the
open egg contracts like what if they
can't afford to pay for this? Okay, now
there's like there's a bigger risk and
there's a longer and longer tale of like
these businesses. So like yeah, you
absolutely can make a ton of money. Um,
you know, there have been more recent
deals with crypto miners, Google, and
Fluid Stack because Google's really
short on data center capacity. Um,
people want to use more TPUs. um they
can't they can't serve them all
themselves. So, they're going to sell
TPU systems to uh providers. Um you
know, Google Yeah, they're backstopping
the deals with uh Terowolf is one of the
companies. Um I can't remember the other
one, but there's two companies they've
signed deals with where they're
backstopping the data center
>> plus like selling the the TPUs
physically to another company and then
they're being deployed and then they're
getting rented. Um and Google still
makes all the money. like you know
there's there's those companies you know
yeah that's great as well but then
there's a long tale of like is the
enterprise demand there is the who's
taking the risk right and it's like open
taking the risk because they're betting
their entire company could go bankrupt
if it doesn't come Oracle's taking a
risk because they're they're signing up
for you know $300 billion of contract
okay $200 billion of hardware spend
across data centers and and chips and of
that like they're going to have to go
get debt right um so so they're on the
hook and they they'll probably be able
to pay for it if it happens but they'll
just be like their their EV will like
tank if opening I can't pay for all the
hardware that they bought right and and
luckily for them it phases in over time
and whatever right but like and then you
go to the inference providers and it's
like yeah there is there's a business to
be made here too right like I'm serving
models maybe Roblox comes to me and they
want to put an LLM in their in their
game right because of XYZ reasons okay
Roblox is a good customer or like hey
you know another company like uh Shopify
wants to put an LLM for customer service
and you know yes they could do it
themselves but actually there's
inference is a hard thing especially as
you get to larger and larger models and
more complicated models and all the
things or you know there's all these
different use cases um where people want
to serve models and maybe it's maybe
it's just open source models and maybe
it's fine-tuning of those open source
models which those companies can help
you do or you can do and they can serve
for you and they have scalable reliable
capacity like it's like there's
businesses to be made here but there's
also like yolo I'm selling tokens to
like random people who are trying to
build SAS apps in NSF and maybe they run
out of runway right and and and like
okay that funding doesn't directly go to
Nvidia, but you go through some steps
and it's going to Nvidia after some
value chain. Um, and and Nvidia's
holding no risk. Everyone in the
middle's got a lot of risk.
>> I'd love to hear your thoughts on like
going back to the other side of the
equation, the the app side, you know,
stuff we're going to use these models to
do at the significance of this switch
from like deterministic code to a much
different thing. And it seems like what
we're doing is the thing we always do,
you know, Apple used to call this like
the schemorphic era where you just
basically use the new technology to do
the old thing you used to do. So, we're
making engineers better. You know, that
would be like an an obvious current
example, but we seems like we haven't
yet gotten into the world where we're
going to start using this this
technology to do things that we couldn't
do before with deterministic code. I'm
curious how you think about like that
side of like pushing the envelope.
>> Why is that? Like I feel like that's
exactly what we do with it, right? Is
like the cost to develop things is so
high that you can't do it, right? like
or the cost to like you know have
someone go buy stuff for you. It's like,
okay, great. You might have an executive
assistant and you can tell them to like,
you know, do this, but like the vast
majority of people don't. And now GPT is
on the cusp of doing that, right? Go buy
go do this, go buy this for me, and
they'll find the best thing and they'll
buy it, right? And you just trust them
enough, right? Um it takes time to trust
them, but like it's like these things
are proliferating across, you know, the
massive, you know, tech tech is the most
deflationary thing in the world ever,
right? Uh in terms of quality of life,
it's it's so it gets cheaper way faster
than the revenues go up,
>> right? But the revenues still go up.
That's sort of like the fundamental
basis of semiconductors, of tech,
everything, right? Are we doing things
that we can't do before with tech, with
AI? Sure. I mean, like the COVID vaccine
was like created with AI. Like it was
like AI drug discovery. Like you can
there's like there's like entire briefs
about like how it was done with AI. And
guess what? If like another pandemic
happened, I bet it'd be even faster to
discover the vaccine if there's a
vaccine for it or whatever, right? Like
there's all these protein folding
things. There's all these like
optimization things. There's AI for
material science and AI for like, you
know, all these other like aspects of
society. There's optimization. Maybe
it's not in your face, right? It's like,
oh my god, AI just made this drug,
right? It's like, no, I mean, AI worked
with the researchers who made the COVID
vaccine and so we didn't have to all
like, you know, be stuck inside forever
or whatever, right?
>> Point being, we're it's already
happening. And the whole like use the
new thing to make the old thing faster.
It's like sure, but like if I go back
three years, how many people would it
have taken to deploy a image recognition
model that looks at every data center in
the world and and looks at like what's
the pace it's of constructions in and
what equipment they have and like
>> assuming this is something you do.
>> This is something we do, right? It's
like it's like how many people would
that have taken? I don't think it would
have been possible. my business model
like this is the second highest revenue
product for us would not have been
possible
>> if it weren't for AI like vibe coding
like you know being able to dig through
permits and regulatory filings being
able to run image recognition on
satellite photos like this would not be
possible this business is not possible
without AI and like am I using it
directly like oh yeah sure I'm scraping
through the regulatory filings and
permits through with LLMs and then
manually reviewing it with people and
like you know and or like doing it
doing that the same with like the the
images, satellite images. Yes, there's a
lot of stuff that you know the image
recognition model does. We just also
look at them a lot
>> and then it's like compiling them and
selling a spreadsheet that you get like
bi-weekly reports on like all the data
centers or what's changed or like hey
actually this Amazon data center the
fans are starting to spin so actually
there's revenue going on from this
Amazon data center so we can forecast
Amazon's revenue right it's like oh okay
like this is like relevant right like
you know but like I don't think this
would have been possible just a few
years ago um at least like off the proof
right now and especially like you know
there's demand for it because everyone
wants to track this and it's so
important but it's like it begets each
other and I think like at least in my
daily life it's like I don't think I
could have taken that step from where I
was in a business which was still a
research provider but like that is a
monumental jump and like being able to
do it with three people out of the gate
versus like 50 or 100 like I don't know
how many people it would have taken but
I don't think it's possible and it's
like mainframe migration is something
people have always wanted to do Amazon
leaving Oracle took [__] 20 years
right and they wanted to do it 20 years
ago and they had their highest revenue
products after EC2 were like the next
four were database products at AWS and
yet they still freaking used Oracle's
database because it's hard.
>> Now there's like mainframe migration can
be way faster or like migration from one
tech stack to another can be way faster.
You can make your business more
efficient. You add more automation. Yes,
the tech exists.
Go to all the businesses around the
world and it's like they aren't using
the leading edge of what they could.
They aren't using, you know, what a 2020
company could have done without AI,
>> right? No one is doing that. And if they
did, they'd be so much more efficient,
right? But like all of these things just
take too long to build. They're too
expensive to build. You have your
existing processes. How do you hand them
over? How do you switch them over? How
do you teach people to do this? AIS can
help you with all of this, right? So
it's sort of like you can take the
pessimistic view of like, oh, we're just
doing the same things, but it's like the
value here is humongous.
>> If it's tokens on one end, we haven't
talked much about like watts at the very
beginning and power. What are your
thoughts on like what is going on here
and how like humanity is responding to
this crazy new demand for just raw
power? The first approximation is that
like we're being a bunch of pansies and
it's not that much power yet,
>> right? Like AI data centers are like 3
4% of the US economy. Power, not
economy. Um or just data centers period
of that like two is regular data centers
and two is like AI data centers, you
know, that's nothing, dude. Like that's
literally nothing. Uh it's just we
haven't built power in like 40 years,
right? Or like we've transitioned from
coal to natural gas more and more over
40 years. It's like so mostly we just
don't know how to and there's these
regulations and like there's not enough
labor and like the supply chains for
like Evanova and their dual combine
cycle gas reactors are not there yet and
same for like Mitsubishi and you know
you you know oh like this random e UV
curing process for transformer coils is
like you know is like there's only this
much capacity and it takes two years to
build them. It's like it's just like
it's a supply chain thing. It's a like
lack of labor thing. It's not that it's
like actually that much yet, but like at
the end of the day, it's like, okay,
wait, wait, you're telling me open is
making a data center with 2 gigawatts
and that's like the entirety of the
power consumption of like Philadelphia.
>> Like that is real. Yeah,
>> that's insane. That's insane, right? But
like we used to get like excited about
finding like a couple hundred megawatts
new data center.
>> Now it's like if it's not a gigawatt
like I I remember like the the the guy
who leads that team, he he was like,
"Oh, it's just 500 megawws, whatever." I
was like I like immediately opine I was
like I I I also agreed immediately then
afterwards I was like wait a second dude
that's like a lot of power that's like
how much wait 500 megawatts is $25
billion of capex like come on like once
you put in the GPUs and everything right
it's like that's a ton of money but like
snore because there's so many of it
happening right we're learning how to
build power again right um we're we're
getting the the supply chains to do it
again we're reshaping the grid uh
there's all these challenges with these
AI data centers that with regards the
demand response and making grids
unstable, right? Um, you know, you
could, you know, AI workloads because
they change so much so fast, especially
training, you can just blow, you could
just you can just cause like brownouts
or blackouts. Um, especially if the grid
doesn't have enough inertia or if you're
not putting enough like things to dampen
it in between the workload and and the
grid. And even if it's not destroying
it, uh, the grid runs at like 59 hertz
or whatever, right? If you you skew it
up and down too much, um you these
transient power responses, your
refrigerator will break down sooner the
motors in it and and you might not even
know it because the data center's
nearby. So like there's like this
there's all these things. There's so
many like third order effects here with
like AI data centers. But like the
funnest one is just that like we're
building power, right? And it's like
whether it's, you know, gas, which is a
lot of it, whether it's through
efficient dual combine cycle reactors or
it's like, you know, random generators
that are like not nearly as efficient,
single cycle or even worse. Um, diesel
generators. There's there's a company
that's putting a bunch of truck engines
in parallel like like diesel truck
engines because the capacity the
industrial capacity for diesel truck
engines is huge.
>> Like and no one's tapped it yet. So why
don't we just put a ton of them in
parallel and create this power
generation thing right here, right? and
and and then you're generating power
with a bunch of diesel truck engines in
parallel and then you're able to power a
data center, right? Like, okay, great.
Because I can't get turbines, right? And
it's like or like, you know, there's
there's all these like crazy things
people are doing. Uh Elon buying some
power equipment from Poland and shipping
it to America because he needed that
power equipment, but like whatever,
couldn't get it here because the supply
chains were weird. I'll just get it over
there. Any lacks capacity in the supply
chain is being eaten up immediately and
then everyone's like, "Okay, let's
invest." So G is like, I'm going to
double my turbine production. It's like,
holy crap. Okay, that's awesome. And
Mitsubishi is doing the same thing. And
you know, you move, you go down the
list, it's like, my my transformer
supply chain is expanding like crazy.
And like, you know, they're fully sold
out, so I'm going to go to the Korean
guys. And that's fully sold out, so I'm
going to figure out how to get the
Chinese stuff in, even though it's not
exactly like, you know, what people want
to do, right? It's like there's all
these like weird things like electrician
wages have like doubled for mobile
electricians that can work on data
center stuff or rather contract. Like if
you're down to move to West Texas, it's
like it's like it's like 2015 again and
like being a fracking guy, right? You
don't need to be super duper skilled.
You can go to West Texas and make a
shitload load of money off of fracking.
But there's not enough of those people.
That's why, right? Like if there were
enough electricians in West Texas, if
there were enough electricians in
America, we could build these data
centers faster. So there's like all
these like little supply chain quirks
and weirdy weirdities. Everyone's supply
chain is different because the way
Google makes their data centers is
different from the way Vantage makes
their data center which is different
from the way that Edge Connects makes
from the way QTS makes their data
centers which is different from the way
Amazon makes their data centers. So
their supply chains are not exactly the
same. Um and so you get all these
weirdnesses in all these different
supply chains. No one really knows it
because everyone who tracked the supply
chain or like knew it. Like you go talk
to like power people, it's like it's
like on one end of the spectrum is like
Daario and then you take a few steps and
it's like it's like ML researchers, the
average ML researcher, then it's like me
and then it's like you in terms of how
bullish we are on AI and the guy at the
power utility is like over here, right?
Um like only there's like a few more
people. There's like the standard New
York stock, you know, New York investor,
semi-investor, then there's the New York
like, you know, um not semiism investor.
And then there's like, you know, the
Sequoia guy who thinks that A has been a
bubble since 2023. And then there's this
this utility guy, right? Um you know,
this utility guy is like, "I'm not
building power. Power doesn't go up, you
know, whatever." And then you have like
the regulations around it. Um you know,
it's like, "How can I build a data
center in this density?" Because um
okay, well then great. Like I'll build
the data center in this density. I'll
have all this backup generators. Great.
Now all of a sudden the grid's like um
yeah. So what we're going to do is we're
going to So this has happened in Texas
or it's happening in PJM um which is the
main you know the sort of northeast kind
of areaish. um these two grids are
putting these like rules where hey we're
gonna actually say hey big loads we can
tell you 24 hours or 72 hours beforehand
we're going to cut off half your power
so that we can like which is fine right
because like
>> we need to because we need for something
else
>> yeah like people people need to have
their homes powered we're not [__]
like Taiwan where if we're in a drought
we limit people's power us water usage
and not the fat right which is which is
a real story right I think there was
there was it was like 2022 2021ish
>> there was like multiple like cities
where they were like okay yeah we're
going to limit the showers you can take
to three a day or three a week, which is
fine because they're East Asian and they
have they don't have the smelly gene
like you know you know like if you did
this in in India like it'd be it'd be
cooked. I mean it's already cooked but
like you know like you know but anyways
like you know they'll limit the water to
these people before they'll limit the
water to TSMC because and it makes sense
the economic value of TSMC is way above
the economic value of people showering
three times a week. But like the US grid
is not going to work that way. We're not
that authoritarian or you know people
have more say. Okay. So, anyways, like
it's like in Texas and in PGM, you can
cut half the power if you give them a
notice. And if you do that, then you
need to turn on the generators that are
there on the site. You know, it's often
diesel generators, maybe it's gas, um
maybe it's like hydrogen stuff. There's
all sorts of weird stuff people try to
do just to ramp up power uh for that
period of time. But then all of a
sudden, oh crap, the density of my
generators means that I fail the air
permit if I run the generators for more
than eight hours a month. So now what do
I do? Right? It's like there's all these
like weird regulations. Even if it's
like Texas, it's it's really fun that uh
>> we get to watch it. you get to see watch
it and then watch the supply chain and
try and like you know at least from my
perspective provide the data so people
can trade on it or provide the data so
people can adjust their supply chains
you know industry-wise right people who
go to your audience they can trade on it
or they can like see and invest and make
money and like allocate capital more
efficiently right
>> if if I were to line up all the stages
of this between the US and China so you
know power semis models applications etc
where do you think the most interesting
differences are like what are the what
are the story lines between us and China
at those various layers of like the AI
stack that are the most interesting to
you?
>> When you look at China, it's like
they're a very formidable competitor. Um
I think if we didn't have the AI boom,
the US probably would be behind China
and no longer the world hegeimon by the
end of the decade if not sooner. And a
world where the US is not the hegeimon
is
>> is a bad one for Americans at least. Um,
you know, I I I, you know, I'm sort of
like a, you know,
>> sure,
>> [__] bald eagle like carrying like
American. I'm like, it's bad for the
world. Without AI, like we're definitely
just going to lose, right? Our supply
chains are slower. They cost too much.
Uh, we're we're sliding. Our debt is
like unsustainable. Like, you know, our
economy is not growing fast enough to
maintain the level of debt. Like our
we're over consuming relative to what we
produce. um the financialization there's
like this all this like darth and like
human like in like the US in terms of
like social instability partially
because of income inequality but also
largely because of um the visualness the
visual like nature of of income
inequality and the tendency of people to
flaunt their wealth more because of
social media and how that hacks people's
brains and then also like because the
algorithm serves people different
content we're drifting further and
further apart in culture right
monoculture of everyone watching
watching the same movies in the ' 50s
and 40s and 30s versus like now like you
and I are pretty similar and our feeds
are completely different. So think about
someone who's not in this world like in
in our like you know similar worlds like
their feed is like insanely different. I
think the US would literally fall apart
if we don't do something like and and by
do something I mean like
>> AI has to dramatically accelerate GDP
growth. Once you start talking about
dividing the pie you're screwed, right?
Um it has to be growing the pie and you
know this this whole thing, right? Um,
so I like I'm I'm like, you know, the US
really really needs AI. China's view is
like I think it's like a little bit
different, right? They don't necessarily
need AI to win. They've always played
this long game. They did it with steel.
Um, they've done it with like, you know,
rare earth minerals. They've done it
with solar panels. They've done it for,
you know, producing phones. They've done
it for PCBs. They've done it for so many
freaking industries. Incrementally,
they're just going to continue to do
that. And then they're going to win
because they they work harder and
they're on average smarter. If we don't
have super powerful AI systems, we'll
run out of like easily accessible like
nickel and cobalt and oil and natural
gas and we won't be able to make solar
panels efficient and fast enough and
everything will start to get more
expensive and the pies will reduce and
we'll also tear each other apart in that
way like uh sort of the so I have like a
very pessimistic view that if we don't
accelerate we die. If that's your world
view then like we really need to win AI.
Um, and China's worldview is sort of
like, you know, they want to be the
world hedgeimon. Like, I mean, who
doesn't want to be the world hedgeimon?
But there's only two countries in the
world that can legitimately do it and
legitimately are trying, right? The US
and China. The way like the Chinese AI
ecosystem thinks about this is, well,
we don't necessarily need to have the
biggest compute cluster. When OpenAI is
trying to make a 2 G data center full of
GB200s and GB300s, like all these
different chips, and those chips are way
faster than the chips that will sell
China/ the chips China can make
themselves. and China is deploying less
of them. You know, the girth of compute
is huge. You know, we're kind of doing
what China's done historically, which is
dumping tons of capital into something
and the market becomes
>> interesting.
>> And the beneficiary is like, oh, if
OpenAI, you know, they have 800 million
users today when they have three, four,
five billion users across the world,
which is possible, right, of of chat,
GPT, and whatever applications they come
up with, then they're on our system and
then then they can start to make money,
right? It's sort of like YouTube lost
money forever, but now it's the platform
for watching videos across the world,
right? and Chad GPT will be the same
thing. So sort of that like there
there's that like aggregation theory.
China doesn't necessarily think of it
the same way. Um but they are still
incredibly pilledled on like well we
want to be able to make everything
ourselves, right? So make all of the
chips ourselves. We're not necessar we
don't actually care that much about
making all the chips ourselves. Sure
Trump's doing the tariffs, sure we had
the chips act, but those were drops in
the bucket compared to how much money
China's releasing into the semiconductor
ecosystem and have has been for the last
10 years. they've dumped, you know, at
least like $4500 billion into this
ecosystem through SOE's through um who,
you know, through certain tax policies,
through certain like land grants,
through provincial governments, through
uh the big funds, uh which is like
government venture funds almost. So,
they've dumped so much more capital into
semiconductors than we have in an
unprofitable way because they want to
build that ecosystem. Um and and over
time, you know, it's like, well, if you
take any country in isolation, China is
the one that has everything at the
highest level on average, right? Sure,
they're like 30 years behind on jet
engines, but they don't actually need to
go for or 20 years or 10 years, whatever
it is, but they don't need to go outside
of China for any of the materials
besides like raw materials. Whereas like
the US needs like titanium from here and
like, you know, blah blah blah from
there, right? And the same applies to
their semiconductor ecosystem, right?
Sure, the US and Taiwan and Korea are
way ahead, but then they also have the
accumulated capital base of all of the
existing equipment and all of the
existing fabs, but then they they don't
have um you know the cap like they they
need to import from all these different
places because it's a global supply
chain. And so China is like much more
concerned today about being insular than
being the best in doing this like sort
of aggregation theory. But because
they're so talented and they have an
insular supply chain, um yes, they
purchase some stuff from the foreign
world. They rent stuff. They have Bite
Dance who's I think the third largest
user of GPUs in the world. Um after
OpenAI and um you know probably Meta,
although bite dance may be bigger than
Meta, but third largest user of GPUs in
the world or second maybe even Bite
Dance is um they they have they have all
the other major Chinese tech companies.
They have all of these amazing
graduates. They don't have a talent
pool. companies don't poach from each
other, right? Deepseek engineers make a
lot more than other engineers, but
they're not making $10 million even
though they may be worth it, right? Um
there's this like real big perception
difference. And China could build way
faster than us. If they wanted to build,
you know, a 2 gawatt or 5 gawatt data
center, they could probably smuggle a
lot of chips. It's not like a pure derog
a derivative of them wanting to smuggle
shitloads of chips because hey if they
wanted to build a 10 gawatt data center
I bet they could build it in like a few
years. Um whereas the US is not going to
build a single 10 gawatt data center for
>> for a while right like the total
capacity of an open AI will be like 10
gawatts in a few years right um
optimistically you know they don't have
the best chips speed rating up trying to
get better and better and faster and
faster. Um they don't have the best
memory. Um they're trying to get better
and faster there. they do have the most
power. They can build stuff way faster,
right? We're impressed at how fast Elon
does stuff. Elon's slow compared to
China. Um, and I think he knows that.
Um, which is why he's maybe like the one
who's like actually using the Chinese
ecosystem more in terms of like, you
know, the the battery facilities making
in China and, you know, all these
things, right? He's he probably
recognizes it too. Um, you so there's
there's like these these major
differences in like viewpoint and
approach because China wants an insular
supply chain. They want to have supply
chain security.
We talk about wanting that, but we don't
actually put the money behind it. We're,
you know, where's the, you know, where's
the the Russian roulette of like where's
the American uh or the slot machine of
where the American capital is being
allocated. Um
>> it's building the biggest data centers.
It's training the best models. Whereas
in China, the capital's being allocated
into
>> um growing the EV supply chain, growing
the semiconductor supply chain, catching
up in all these areas. And like the US,
sure, we want to catch up, but actually
we're just gonna give like terrible.
>> Maybe Jensen was right that like what
you want to own is the end customer
thing. And
>> yeah, export export to production and
and import doing the same thing they've
done forever, which is like prepare at
the base level and be behind at the
customer side and the value the value
happens close to the customer. But then
like you get to the point of like okay
well what happens in like three four
years even if the US AI is amazing we
have no you know like the doomsday
scenario of like you know China decides
to blockade Taiwan or even invade it or
create some political instability.
People talk about like Cambridge
analytics and like Russian trolls
whatever like China could do a billion
times that into Taiwan especially with
AI with how good AI is now and and
somehow subvert it or coup or blockade
or whatever and we no longer have Taiwan
US economy kind of free falls, right?
Because we can't make refrigerators
without Taiwanese chips. We can't make,
you know, cars. We can't make AI data
centers. We can't grow any of the cloud.
We can't That means we can't deploy any
more SAS applications. Like, what the
hell can we do?
>> Back to going to acquire all the talent,
get them over here, do that.
>> Right. I I think like that's sort of
like the the like catch 22 of this all
is like if you push China too hard, they
totally will. Like they're going to
start swinging. They have the talent,
they could go crazy, they could, you
know, if if we no longer have Taiwan,
actually, China could build a way bigger
cluster than us. And if comput is all
that matters, right? Like they could do
all of these things and they own the
means of production for everything,
right? So sort of like it's like, you
know, there's this like challenging
aspect of like geopolitical risk is
like, you know, that's why people don't
want to invest in TSMC, but it's like
almost like you can't invest into Amazon
or Apple or Google or like Microsoft if
you have geopolitical risk. if you
believe Taiwan has risk and so it's like
yolo invest in TSMC. I know a lot of
people's PMs are like oh you can't
invest in TSMC because geopolitical risk
and it's like no dude you can't invest
in [__] Apple.
>> Who is your favorite AI bear? Like
someone that is is far distant from you
on just their perspective on the
direction of this whole thing that you
nonetheless like and respect.
>> There's some of the like AI researcher
like gods like Yan Lun and like these
kind of people who are AI bears. I I
respect them. I like what they like
their ideas. I think they're completely
wrong, but you
>> and their argument is what? Like if you
had to sum it, you know,
>> the ways we're doing this won't work,
right?
>> LLM's on scale or
>> right, but and it's like, okay, yeah,
yeah, auto reggress like it's like,
okay, auto reggressive pre-training on
the internet doesn't work to get you to
AGI. So, he's completely right on that,
but then like he'll turn around and be
like, well, no, no, no, but like RL
systems and all these things are not the
right way either, right? Like, you know,
it's sort of like, you know, it's like
the no butts. Um, I think there's also
like there's some investors that I know
who like think this is [__] but
they're just making tons of money on it
anyways.
>> I think it's [__] in what sense?
Like
>> it's an overspend and like, you know,
this is a dumb way to do it. And like,
yes, I bought Oracle before earnings
because, you know, you know, we see we
see these deals happening, whether it's
through our data or some other means.
They saw these deals happening um with
OpenAI, but we don't think OpenAI can
pay for it, but we know the market's
perception will be this and therefore
the stock will go up and so we'll own
it, right? Um, and so there's like I
guess I would respect them to some
sense, but it's it's it's it's um I
think more and more the level of
evidence that's there that this stuff is
going to get super powerful, it's hard
to not, right? Again, like this AI
bubble is going to pop because this
podcast, man,
>> I assure you it's just a market return.
It's a coin toss.
>> What startups interest you the most?
>> So, one of the startups is um that I've
I've you know, it's the most recent
investment I've made. It's called
periodic labs. Um it's mostly open AI
people. It's a Google guy and you know
the couple material scientists. Um the
area of AI that we've all been talking
about is like large scale web training
RL all text all digital god right. You
know I you know we want to make digital
god.
>> Yeah.
>> But you know what would drive a shitload
of value for the economy besides you
know automating programming of
everything is like if we just like came
up with like a battery chemistry that
was like 25% more efficient. Mhm.
>> Like holy [__]
>> You know, like the main main cap against
like us all having like face glasses,
you know, things like that is like
batteries are not good enough, right?
And the power dissipation, but the
battery is like terrible. So, you have
to do make all these compromises. But if
I could have the processing power of
like, you know, a laptop on my face,
we'd be way further ahead. And like and
then and then if we all had like these
like super powerful machines attached to
our face, we could do inference on
things and recognize and interact with
the AI at much higher speed and velocity
and and that would like dramatically
improve our productivity, right? Like
things like this are like so like gated
by hard tech moving faster. And so what
Periodic is trying to do is they're
taking this RL paradigm, but they're
trying to do it with like real world,
right? test chemistry for something,
right? A here's a here's a chemistry um
here's an optimization, here's something
that the model spit out, but then you
also want to test it in the real world
and then feed that feedback back into
the model. And so you do this like chain
of of circles, right? But instead of
purely being,
you know, digital, right? Which is which
is why like RL is like really hard
because you need to generate a bunch of
responses, test, and then train the
model. So the flywheel is so freaking
fast. Yeah. Right. the flywheel in the
physical world is so slow, right? Oh, if
I you mean I need to make a chemistry, I
need to try this. I need to test the the
thing. Um I need to input it back in and
and you know, I need to keep calibrating
and keep doing this. It's so much more
expensive. It's so much harder to do.
But actually, there's a ton of low
hanging fruit there, I bet.
>> What about in the hardware world? Like
just in the pure hardware space
attacking some other interesting
bottleneck
>> when we talk about like where we are in
tech, right? Like it's like um
semiconductor manufacturing is super
space age, right? It's like the most
complicated tools we make in the world.
Um, including like tools that cost like
half a billion dollars, right? Like, and
and they're super super like amazing
feats of engineering. Then the software
behind them all is like really [__]
right? So, it's like, you know, you
could you can accelerate all that. Um,
but really it's like um in the hardware
world, the biggest challenge is that
like I'm not really a big bull on the
accelerator companies. I've never been.
Companies make competing with Nvidia.
>> Yeah, I got it. um competing with
Nvidia, with TPUs, with Tranium, you
know, with with AMD. Not a big bull on
those kinds of companies
>> because it's too hard.
>> It's just too many things to do. It's
too capo intensive. It's too there's not
enough of a revolutionary leap. There's
too many predicated things. Um you know,
I'm I I wish it could happen, right?
It'd be fun. Um maybe it does happen,
but it would take hell of a badass
thing. But I think there's a lot of
individual parts of the supply chain
which are not spaceaged, right? Um,
Nvidia space age, yes, it's the biggest
value value owner today, but their
supply chain has so much old [__]
right? And whether it's their supply
chain or the hyperscale supply chain,
transformers have not changed in like
50, 100 years, right? Like
>> there's a guy building a company in that
space.
>> Solid state transformers, right? Like
things like this. Yeah. So, there's all
sorts of interesting things there.
There's so many interesting companies in
that space because there's so much
innovation to be done and there wasn't
that much of a need to do innovation
before. Another area is like networking
between chips because
as we extend context length the memory
requirements become bigger and bigger
and yes new memory technologies would be
awesome but DM is an industry has so
much invested capital goods so much so
existing factories it's really hard to
attack. Um but you know networking is
less so and there's more breakthroughs
that can be done in networking that okay
maybe you don't have better memory
technologies but you've tied the chips
closer together so you can use each
other's memory on the problem. There's
so much more that you can do in terms of
the optics space bridging the gap
between electrical connectivity and
optical connectivity because look you
know Nvidia created Blackwell they had a
ton of manufacturing problems and
challenges with it um for their supply
chain um balance sheets went up for you
know various companies in the supply
chain were building servers and stuff
because they're trying to figure it out
AI server AI data center deployments
were slowed because of these challenges
there's reliability challenges because
these things are connecting to each
other at you know at absurd bandwidths
right every chip in the rack and connect
to every other chip in the rack at 1.8
terabytes a second, right? That's that's
if you think about how much data that
is, right? Like like the amount of
bandwidth is so high for connecting
these chips together. Like I like you
can't fathom what a terabyte a second
is. You can't fathom what a gigabyte a
second is. You know, it's like okay, a
gigabyte a second is like a video,
right? Like or like less than a video,
right? Or like a megabyte a second, but
actually that's a million bits of
information. What's what's a kilobyte a
sec? a bite a sec. Okay, you can
understand what a bite a second is
because that's eight bits.
>> Okay, I'm transmitting eight bits to you
back and forth every second. That's
pretty fast.
>> That's what it used to exist. And it's
like where we are now, there's still
tons of innovation left to be done
there. Like I think part of the reason
Intel is behind is also that uh data
sharing internally was terrible
>> and just within the fab the lithography
team doesn't want to share their data
with um the etch team and they can't use
and and that data can't leave the fab
and go to an AWS data center to run you
know uh you know correlations and all
these other things. So you don't learn
from the experiments you do fast enough.
>> Right now TSMC is not perfect here
either. They won't send their data to a
cloud either. But like you know this
experimentation experiment analyze the
data figure out the new experiments
cycle is slow and how you break that is
actually like you know partially it's
it's changing these companies culture
which I think lian is trying to do. Um
but also it's a lot of it is like
building better simulators simulating
the world more accurately. So world
models generally are like hey I'm going
to simulate the world. I'm going to walk
around in, you know, the common one I
think is G3 that Google made, right?
Where you can walk around and at at Cape
State and you walk around the world and
you can like see cars driving and like
they're talking about like but it's like
actually what a world model could also
be is just like simulating molecules or
simulating um but not through classical
methods, right? It's not computational
fluid dynamics. It's it's the model
experiencing this enough and then
running and training a model on physics
and then feeding that back through and
doing it through a AI method instead of
and so world models can be doing any
sorts of things, right? You can put make
a world model to train robots how to
pick up cups, right? Or you can make a
world model that is simulating some
chemistry in a chemical reaction, right?
Or um a fire, right? Like you could do
all sorts of different things. So
there's a lot of world model companies
out there. Some of them are really
interesting, especially when they're
targeting the physics and reality of the
world. Most of the cool innovation is
just happening at big companies or
already existing companies, right?
That's just the nature of it all, right?
Like actually TSMC is doing the most
cool innovation and Nvidia is doing the
most cool innovation and like you know
Amphanol is doing cool innovation. It's
like all these companies are doing cool
innovation. C
>> could we do like a uh a quick speed
round where like I say some company and
you just give me like you know a
sentence or two on like your impression
of them just like just like how how you
feel about them in this moment. Yeah,
>> start with Open AI.
>> Oh, yeah. Super awesome.
>> That's it.
>> I mean, we've talked about them all day.
>> Anthropic.
>> I'm actually more optimistic on
anthropic than I'm Open AI.
>> Why? their revenue is accelerating way
faster because what they're focused on
is more relevant to that two trillion
dollar software market versus OpenAI is
split between yeah they're going to do
that but they're also going to do these
other things but they're also going to
do like target AI for you know science
and they're going to also target AI for
um you know the consumer app and doing
the like take rate thing which all of
these businesses could be amazing and
open maybe executes on all of them but
Anthropic is definitely executing on the
software side better
>> yeah AMD
>> I love them but they're pretty mid
>> why do you love them if
when you grow up like like building
computers and like liking computers and
like AMD's innovating and they're always
like fostered this underdog mentality
against Intel and against Nvidia, evil
Intel and evil Nvidia, you know, and
like AMD is like, you know, the nice
company that's like the underdog and
like they're always they've always got
the oh, they're going to take share from
them thesis. It's like it's like it's
hard not to love them, you know, like
and I know so many people there and I
like the I like all these major hardware
companies, right? There's not one that I
don't like as in terms of the people,
but like AMD's got a soft spot because
like I think it was my first multibagger
as well.
>> Like my first multibagger. I can't own
stocks anymore because compliance. Sorry
for the rant, but I [__] love AMD,
you know? I also love Nvidia,
>> but mid
>> XAI.
>> They're in a real danger of not being
able to raise capital. U Elon's the best
C. Of course, everyone's going to give
Elon capital, but like the scale of
capital required uh for him to keep up.
He can get the next bet. He can get to
Colossus 2, right? uh this mega data
center that he's building, largest data
center in the world when he builds it,
uh 300,000, you know, black wells,
500,000 black wells, right? Like it's
going to be really great, but if he
doesn't figure out a business model
besides like Pornbot,
>> um which is what Annie is,
>> which also I think he's monetizing the
wrong way. Like I think he could
monetize it so much better. how
>> you've captured the zeitgeist with a
cute anime girl that talks to you in a
cute voice and like will rz you up and
and you've got like these users who
actually fall for it and it's like not
realistic enough yet, but it will slowly
get more realistic. And you're not like
you're selling like outfits for the same
price. You should make it a random like,
"Hey, you have a chance to buy the
outfit that is actually her being nude."
Or like, "Hey, you have the chance to
buy the outfit of her like looking like
this one anime girl from this one
anime." Or like, "Hey, you have the
chance to buy this outfit that's her in
a nun suit." I mean, obviously like, you
know, people at XAI hate this and like a
lot of them and and many of them have
some of them have left. But I think like
he has to figure out like some business
model beyond just this, although I think
this could be a big business, right?
like he he should partner with Only Fans
and make like make manifestations of the
Only Fans creator with that are Annie
and then he subsumes the Only Fans
platform into X
>> the everything app
>> and be like XXX like you know it's like
you could you could just like Trojan
horse like Only Fans away cuz like the
discovery mechanism for only fans is
like Instagram and Twitter as far as I
understand
>> and like you own one of them
>> and you could partner with the biggest
Only Fans creators to like you know get
them over right like you know and then
they they don't have to respond to all
the losers like they can also just like
train a model that like acts and looks
like them and talks to them. Anyways,
like there's all these different
monetization methods and I don't think
that's what he should only focus on,
right? To be clear, XAI can get to the
next stage of compute. They won't have
more compute than opening. I won't have
more compute than any individual company
at Google, Meta, etc., But they will
have the biggest individual data center
>> and what he does with that and he and
they'll be they'll have a very focused
team and what they do with that they
have to do something like really big
otherwise they will fall behind in the
race and and Elon will not let that
happen like he doesn't want that happen
but he can't he can he can subsidize and
fund this round but like he can't go to
a 3 gawatt data center
>> unless he gets capital which he can't do
unless he gets revenue and fundraising.
>> Oracle
>> Oracle is going to make so much [__]
money if you believe if you believe
OpenAI is successful. But if you think
Open AI is going to be successful enough
to pay $300 billion dollars to them, how
many users do they have and what's that
IP worth? Like maybe and also like you
know there's reasons you shouldn't own
OpenAI, like the Microsoft
stuff and like the risks around
Enthropic and all these things, but like
you know
>> in most worlds where open where Oracle
gets paid $300 billion by OpenAI, OpenAI
is like a$10 trillion or $5 trillion
company or something crazy. We'll end
with the the OGs, the the old last
generation best two business models.
First being Meta.
>> I think Meta's got the cards to
potentially like own it all. I don't
know if you've seen these new glasses
that they came out with the screen.
>> Yeah.
>> As we go through the history of
computing, you have, you know, initially
it was like ter it was like punch cards
programming. Then it was like DOSS
terminals, right? And then it was like
then it was like, oh, you have gooies
and mouses and keyboards. Then you had
touch. And the next paradigm, a human
computer interface
is we don't actually have to touch it at
all. We tell the AI what we want and the
AI will translate that into reality,
right? Whether it's, hey, send an email
to this person, send a text to this
person. That's basic stuff that you can
already do that with Siri or whatever,
right? But like, oh, go buy this. We're
so close to all of these things. The
input method into a computer changing
entirely. And the only company in the
world who has the full stack from good
hardware that is a you know what what
Meta just showed with their glasses with
the screen plus the good models um plus
the capacity to serve them plus the uh
knowledge and knowhow around
recommendation systems to know what
content to put in front of the user. Um
because it is ch it's not just
generating the content. It's not just
interpreting the user's word and taking
actions. It's also putting the right
content in front of the user. It's all
four of these that you need to put in
front of the user
>> plus the capital.
>> Plus the capital. Um and I think I think
Meta is so close to being the only
company that can do that.
>> U there's a lot of risks there too,
right? So I like Meta a lot.
>> Google to finish it off.
>> I it was pretty bearish Google like two
years ago, but I'm I'm like super
bullish Google.
>> Why would change?
>> They're waking up on every front front.
You know, they're taking the TPUs,
they're selling them externally. They're
taking the um their models and they're
actually like competitive on them and
they're training much better and better
and better. Um they're being aggressive
on infrastructure investments. Um
there's still a lot of dysfunction
throughout the company, you know, but
you know, they do have the hardware
business that they can pivot into this.
They won't be as head as Meta is. Um
they won't be as good as Apple is, but
like they they they do have Android. Um
they do have YouTube. They do have like
all these IPs. They have search that can
come together when we turn to that next
interface of consumer. But also they can
also dominate the professional sense too
potentially. Whereas Meta I don't think
can dominate that professional sense um
only the consumer sense and I think
Google's well positioned to go capture
both markets
>> or a meaningful share of both.
>> I feel like we've covered like an
incredible amount of ground. Is there
anything that we haven't talked about
that you feel is like really critical to
what happens in the future that we
didn't cover? I think the question, you
know, sort of of everyone that I
constantly get asked is like, okay,
Dylan, you know, you're lucky your
obsession is that you loved hardware and
you like followed it and you followed
the supply chain and and you built this
business on it, but like you really like
you don't follow the software side
nearly as much and all the value is
going to get created there, right? When
is that going to when is that flip coin
going to flip over? Um, but I think the
thing that most people don't realize,
software is not the same as it was 5 10
years ago. you've had dramatic changes
in software and the business model is
going to change as well. Right? If we go
back like 5 years, three years, whatever
when SAS was the darling November 21, I
remember SAS started tanking and um at
the time it was like it was like mostly
like they were over earning and all
these other things doesn't matter. The
interesting thing about the business
model is that it was it is such a good
business model when your R&D is sort of
this it stays flat, right? And you grow
a little bit but really R&D doesn't flex
that much. Your cogs are super low. Um
you're you know the flip side is in a
SAS business your customer acquisition
cost is quite high. Yeah. And so when
you look at what like what like certain
companies have done when they've
acquired a business is they've just
crushed the customer cost acquisition
cost or crust sa they made the business
amazing whether it's like Broadcom with
VMware and stuff. It's not really
customer acquisition. They just had a
bunch of wasted SGA but like this SGA
this customer acquisition that was most
of your cost. R&D was small but not like
crazy. And then once you hit critical
mass, you just you just cash cash
money money. But software changes a lot
when the cost to build that software
that you have tanks like crazy. You look
at non US markets and the prevalence of
SAS, it's very different. I will bring
up China as an example and a
counterpoint. China
doesn't have that much of a SAS
business. Actually, their cloud business
is pretty small too, right? relatively
to the US not despite them like
importing tons of CPUs and storage
historically right there most people
just did stuff on prem and design their
own software because the cost of
developing software in China was so much
less than America
>> that the SAS business model didn't work
as well people could just build rather
than rent it out and buy and that
creates inefficiency in the market I'm
sure those weren't the best of breed
solutions always anyways that's what the
software development cost may be like
you know it was like software developers
in 2015 in China were getting paid maybe
fifth of the US and they were maybe
twice as good or something like that. So
10x lower cost of software. I'm I'm
making up numbers, right? Um you know
they had 10x lower cost of software and
so SAS never happened. Cloud never
happened and and at least as big of a
way as it did in the US and around the
world for all the companies that use
that sort of that have that same
economic reality and that's despite the
outsourcing right to India and and and
Eastern Europe and South South America,
etc. Um you you you changed all of this
with AI software development, right? um
and AI SAS products generally, right?
Not just AI software development. So
there's two sort of coins here. So AI
software development tanks the cost of
building a competing software stack. Do
you now move to a world where X can just
build I can just build instead of buying
renting? Two is if you are a SAS
business and your customer acquisition
cost remains the same and most
businesses in AI and in SAS are going to
remain having a high customer
acquisition cost. Sales is hard. Uh
breaking into a competency is hard. But
now you add this AI part of it, you've
now added a humongous cogs, right? Your
cost of goods sold in any AI software is
really hard and really big. And this is
partially why I think Google also has an
advantage. They have the lowest cost of
goods sold for any token of any company
because they have their own vertical
stack on TPUs. Anyways, coming back to
this because you have this high customer
acquisition cost and you have this high
uh cogs and then the cost of anyone
developing it themselves or competitors
in the market means you're going to have
a very fragmented SAS market or they're
just going to build it themselves and
therefore you never hit the escape
velocity where your customer acquisition
cost and your R&D get and get amortized
and because you have such a high COGS
your amortization point means your gross
your net profitability is actually much
worse and so I think like the era of
like software only businesses is really
really tough in the age of AI now
already scaled businesses can do great
right I think YouTube is going to have
its glory days and I'm sure it'll it'll
always be amazing but with with with the
cost of generation of content falling
and falling creating content he who
controls the platform is going to win
and win and win and win but like
>> you know there's like the functionality
you build within Salesforce is actually
going to be like way less like what you
can build on your own like or like you
know there's there's or like whatever it
is. I'm not saying it's a take on
Salesforce itself specifically, but I
think many software businesses will have
a reckoning with the fact that their
COGS is going to sore, their customer
acquisition cost isn't going to fall and
they have a lot more competitors and so
then they don't hit that escape
velocity. And I think that's the
>> the thing that uh maybe software um it's
something I've I've like sort of like
thought about. There's a couple people
in my company Doug Douglas Olaflin and
he's the one whose idea this actually
is.
>> This has been incredibly fun. I I love
love learning from you and listening to
you and reading what you put out. I
think I think you're just one of the
most um energetic and awesome thinkers
in this whole space right now. So, thank
you for all the work you've done. When I
do these, I ask the same traditional
closing question. What's the kindest
thing that anyone's ever done for you?
>> Done for me? H I mean, it have to be my
brother. Everything he's done in my
life. Um I've been a [__] my whole
life and I still am a [__] Um, and
so like every time he like pulls me back
on path, he corrects me. He loves me
unconditionally. I think my brother is
probably the most he's done the kindest
things for me, right? And I've been an
[__] like so much of my life, right?
Like unconsiderate and like everything,
right? He's just always been there for
me and always been
>> Why were you an [__]
>> Why?
>> Yeah. If you're aware of it, it makes it
into
>> No. No. It's terrible. Yeah. And maybe
this is like the MMO of like who I am
and maybe that's why I'm like a good
thinker, but like I I like vibe really
hard and I'm in the moment really hard
and I digest tons of information, but
I'm very like bad at like um like how
would I say like task orientation,
remembering to do specific things. Like
I'm very bad at those things. And
thankfully I've like been able to
surround myself in my life whether it's
through birth or not. um with people who
help me with the things I'm bad at
>> because I'm very bad at a lot of things
like I think like you know as far as
like you know radar plot of like how
good I'm at things and so when I don't
like
>> call people or like think be considered
of what they're thinking because I'm
just vibing and I'm doing whatever you
know I'm like like kind of like focused
in on like this path and like that path
ends up hurting someone else right
whether it's like hey I didn't I didn't
call someone or I didn't like think
about their feelings when I did an
action or when I said something that
makes be an [__] right? And yes, I
should be more conscious of this and I
try to be, but it's like it's just one
of the things I'm going to wrestle with
in my life forever. And a lot of times I
don't even realize I'm being a freaking
idiot
>> until my brother's like, "You're a
freaking idiot."
>> God for your brother.
>> And so like I I you know, that's the
kindest thing anyone's ever uh done for
me is like my brother through my whole
life.
>> I love it. I love it. Wonderful place to
close. Thanks so much for your time.
>> Thank you so much. Yeah.
[Music]